# background on Stubarks

I love stuzzy, but I want a computer I can throw in pretty much any purse (or even my pocket).

I thought about trying to make one out of a Raspberry Pi, but after staring down the prospectibe costs for the parts for such an endeavor (a reasonably-sized screen, keyboard, etc), I figured there must be a cheaper pre-made thing.

Most of the "good Netbooks" I could find were just small Chromebooks, but I found *one* thing that had a 7-inch form factor and was still easily available: the RCA Voyager.

On top of everything, the Voyager has an Intel Atom processor, meaning that it's an x64 machine!

I found it on Amazon for $48, which is a little too close to $50 for me to feel like this is a justifiable purchase (considering how most of the reviews I found for it were like "this is so bad"). However, I was able to find it on Walmart.com for $35, which is much more in line with what I was looking for ("I bought this computer at Walmart" seems like the perfect origin for an *RCA computer* in 2020).

## observations upon unboxing

Oh wow, okay, so I was worried about needing to use the USB Micro port for accessories (ie. a pointing device) because it would impact my ability to charge the device, but it turns out that it uses a *barrel plug* to charge, and *can not draw power over micro-USB* (at least, that's what the manual suggests). Oh my god that's so perfect, this is such a junkyard dog of a machine

(UPDATE: Oh man, it accepts both - again, perfect)

Also, unsurprisingly, there are no sensors on the keyboard case, so closing the clamshell does nothing, you need to manually sleep the device. This is already how stuzzy works, so, again, that is perfect

It looks like I have to take it out of the case to change the MicroSD card? Sweet, that makes it *even more* like internal storages
