# The Alphabelectric Experiment

This is a new iteration on the same "use letter positions in the alphabet to communicate data" idea as Alphabinary, but with (hopefully) more flexibility in writing style.

I don't know if I've written the exact ideas behind this down somewhere else yet, but here's some old crap that alludes to it (it also covers a lot of the stuff I want to do with [alphabi classic](a92da7dd-0bba-44ba-8e5a-743571caab3e.md)):

## the old quest for this

So, basically, I'm developing a way that robots will be able to talk to each other in English, but actually be communicating extremely complex underlying data. I mean, that's not the *first* way I'd use it, but it is the most conceptually terrifying, and it's always important to Go There first.

- [ ] Come up with new names for the family of concepts involved in this design.
  - [x] "charge"
  - [x] "energy"
  - [ ] ...yadda yadda yadda...
  - [ ] The family/class/genre of mapping-permutations-to-bytes-as-a-mnemonic-device projects
- [ ] Gather more experimentation / research data.
  - [ ] Plot the distribution of charge and energy values for all the words in Ubuntu's wordlist (my experiments' current wordlist basis, being developed in a C9 workspace).
- [ ] Write the basic implementation functions to be able to round-trip data for this.
- [ ] Write an example sentence / poem encoding 09f9 or another famous big number.
- [ ] Work on authorship tools.
  - [ ] Make a simple authorship tool that visualizes all the words in a sentence, and how to order them
  - [ ] Progress on Word Lists, Nets, and Ngrams to unlock a branch of development here, especially around auto-generating / pre-populating sentences.
    -  WordNet and/or a smarter/dumber solution (neural network, Markov chain) could possibly get real mind-blowing here, picking the most permutation-aligned word with nearby semantics to an existing word / the surrounding words, for autogen
