# how lists form in these notes

- sometimes parentheticals are what expand into list levels
  - and other forms of parenthetical with different spelling:
    - colon
    - hyphen "and then - like this - I parenthetisized"
    - commas, semicolons
    - ellipsis
      - this is one I just used naturally originally below: lists really are a great workflow UI facility...
    - whatever you call "linking words" (with commas, or maybe semicolons)?
  - and sometimes larger constructs shrink down to lists!
    - don't forget splitting off and making a new parag
  - really, when I say "parenthetical" here, I mean like any sort of natural thought joiner or list construction in the English language
    - examples of more complicated break points I've encountered (just in writing this page):
      - "X, where, if Y..." is *sort of* a linking-word construct?
    - (in reply to the parent of that list)
      - this one has a weird signifier at the top as a, like, "meta-child sibling"
        - which is, you know, a valid construct!
          - also, you know, in real life!
            - "he's my kid brother" etc
          - but it's one to, like, recognize can always exist in any form of data
            - and why you can't just go start divorcing things from context
            - you can call this the Kid Brother Problem, holy shit
    - and, you know, a kind of thought structure beneath it.
      - but I don't know how much that's influenced by the natural language of my thoughts?
      - I mean, even that "x where y" thing is influenced by programming languages, which are influenced by, what, Calculus? Isaac Newton?
