# The Great Interconnected Perfect Space Ideal

let's see if we can't come up with a better acronym. I just remembered that I had a system I wanted to make caleld `vastfile`, maybe it could be something playing off that

This is a project idea that's danced around

- Windowsystem Metabrowser
- Binder
- Squorum
- AR Notecards
- Throw in any other bagtent editor while you're at it
- Pipeline Superconcept
- [A Markdown-First Kubernetes Microservice Templating Notebook Model](5cb3a1a6-4440-4680-b71c-4eb34b715856.md)
  - arguably goes *way higher and lower*
- wayside
- Red String Room
- Casettic, kind of
- as some designs describes a primarily-2d-but-maybe-3d scenegraph
- [Tabs, Stacks, and Notification Decks](bb875e15-3710-4d5a-ab2f-26b948c01d01.md)

and a bunch more projects linked around these.

Looking at systems like Dynamicland and Observable and other stuff I've seen like that (and crossing over as well with the Spatial ID Model thing I described [here](0580b9f0-528e-44a3-a31d-369ceb33aadf.md) / in [Thread Jam](2b83e400-6b77-44bc-9718-f6b94c74396e.md)

this is meant to be, like, the Avengers Infinity War of crossovers of all these ideas, to see if there's a way they could all reasonably fit together

## What model is this?

I think, at its root... what'd be ideal would be if it could all be in one HTML page.

But it might need to be an Awesome shell.

But hey, the Awesome shell can communicate with the server that can communicate with the appsvia HTTP/Websocket to let them interact with the window state

## so anyway

for the Blockly side of this, as well as the Red String - each window has:

- passive attributes (ie. UI affordances)
  - outbound links (directing to other windows)
- active attributes (ie. ones that have functionality when "executing")
  - input variables
  - output variables

and by "window" here, I mean "also icons", because some models will view a document as an icon, and some will display it as an editor...

not all windows are rendered like "windows" - simpler templates are rendered via simpler means

or rather, the "window" chrome is lightweight - it's not like a new GDI object for each one or whatever

when rendered statically, it's always HTML?

editor components are instantiated when editing,

# manifesto

or rather: there's a difference between "window open to edit this file" and "instance of this file in a space" - but it can be useful to blur those lines
