# Plolitical Laws of Congress

ASOF 3186 (Fived)

In this document, the words [REDACTED]

Over the duration of one Term of Congress, the Chambers [REDACTED] until the Kerrtaker of one Party [REDACTED] causing [REDACTED]

## Calling Forth [REDACTED]

[REDACTED]

[REDACTED] Book of [REDACTED] recovered, [REDACTED]

[REDACTED]

## Rules of Succession.

When a Member Chooses to Resign, they appoint a successor [REDACTED] the Rules of Succession for the corresponding Role.

If a Member of Parliament is offered a Position with the opposing Party, they WILL accept the new position, abandoning their previous title without leaving a successor.

### Rules of Succession for Interns.

An Internship may [REDACTED]

An Internship may only be Offered [REDACTED] not [REDACTED] same Councillor of the opposing Party.

### Aisle-Crossing for Internships via Connections Incorporating Members at Lesser Large.

[REDACTED], if, [REDACTED], [REDACTED], may [REDACTED].

The guilty [REDACTED]

[REDACTED] title of Intern under that Councillor will be abolished.

### Rules of Succession for Barristers.

A Barristerhood may be transferred to any Member not already holding a title with the Party, who is connected to the current Barrister, either directly or through Members At Large who [REDACTED]

[REDACTED] conniving, dastardly little [REDACTED] [REDACTED] all ought to be [REDACTED]

### Rules of Succession for Representatives.

A Representativeship may be transferred to any Member not already holding a title with the Party, who is connected to the current Representative through Members At Large who [REDACTED] or [REDACTED]

### Rules of Succession for Quips of the Party.

The Party Quiphood may be transferred to any Member not already holding a title with the Party, who is connected to the current Quip of the Party through Members At Large who [REDACTED], [REDACTED], or [REDACTED] dirty Barrister.

### Rules of Succession for Party Kerrtakers.

The title of Party Kerrtaker may be transferred to any Member not already holding a title with the Party who is directly connected to the current Kerrtaker.

### Ritual of Original Kerreption.

[REDACTED] Kerr's [REDACTED] At Large [REDACTED] Representatives [REDACTED].

[REDACTED] MUST NOT be [REDACTED] before [REDACTED] the Ritual.

[REDACTED] ONE TIME ONLY. [REDACTED] AT ONCE.

[REDACTED]

### Rules of Succession for Nihilists.

A title of Nihilist may be transferred to any Member not already holding a title with the Party who is [REDACTED] and [REDACTED] to the current Nihilist.

## Law of Fives.

MEMBERS DISCOVERED TO BE IN ACCESSORY TO THE POSESSION OF FIVE, AT ANY TIME, WILL BE [REDACTED]

## Definition of [REDACTED]

[REDACTED]

[REDACTED]

## On the [REDACTED] Previous [REDACTED]

[REDACTED]

[REDACTED]

[REDACTED]

[REDACTED]

### [REDACTED]

[REDACTED]

[REDACTED]

[REDACTED]
