# How I am Currently Trying to Sort My Shit Out

There was an older iteration of this called [Project Akira][] that originally grew out of the [meditation][Meditations] for [My Old Bad Ideas][].

This is now the current nexus for my base of operations under the [Department of Development][DoD]. Update your bookmarks.

[DoD]: eb1e81f8-5939-4f85-9930-418044018a75.md
[My Old Bad Ideas]: f3f3d6ba-6342-415a-9f3b-ab4f1d75a692.md
[Project Akira]: dadfc5e5-cfb6-4f7d-88c0-bcd64b91feac.md
[Meditations]: 8f2359ae-186f-4878-b5e5-33f3c177e6fc.md

I want to sort out what the hell is going on with my "Right Now" and "Projects" indices: like, I feel like those could probably get woven together better.

(Also, Lean Notes is still kind of in limbo: returning to that would probably be cool.)

I've got a few fixes I want to do on various projects that I've been keeping in a Google Keep note, that is now moved [here][deprechaun]

[deprechaun]: 2e874825-eb8d-4b42-9c31-dfcf4f30a799.md

I want to explain that Google Keep is a huge supplement to this repo, somewhere. I think there's a note about me needing to explain my note-taking process somewhere around here - I'll probably work on that, at some point.

TODO: Move all these "I want to X" notes here to the [Barfspace Operations][] Arc

[Barfspace Operations]: a3f1fbb2-28c2-43b2-950d-6d5b7af7cd64.md

## Update 2019-03-08

So, I'm thinking of moving this repo over to GitLab Pages, and writing my own rendering system.

One thing I'm thinking it'd be cool to add, if I could have my own system for this - so, one of the major perks of doing this would be that I'd get to do my own pug-based template renderer or whatever.

But another thing I'm thinking could be fun would be an "add these stylesheets for these pages" spec, like "everything linked from one of the two Lean Notes pages shoyld have this Lean Notes stylesheet". Kind of like the special rules around creating trees for notes that live somewhere around the plans for Bell TPC in the Unconvincing Truth notes.

ADDENDUM 2019-05-03: A custom rendering system would also be able to point to "This page was deleted, see the commit that deleted it for directions toward where you should probably go", that would make it so I wouldn't have to leave so many stubs and stumps around

Ooh, maybe there can be an on-demand renderer that renders the tree at a certain point by refspec? hmm, idk if there's a suitable reflog upstream, like, how would it handle pages merged in from foreign trees that had a different version of the page... i don't know, it's weird, it's bridges I'd cross when I came to them

## Current thinking 2019-04-01

Okay, so, the first thing to getting a handle on what I have here is to open the site in another tab and navigate around via links, which I can't really do in the editor right now.

From there, I'm looking at the Right Now / News / Quests view, and I'm thinking I'm just gonna go ahead and collapse the remaining Right Now content into new Quest node / pages, and then just turn "Right Now" into, like, a descending list of updates across all those quests.

I'm dealing with [reconciling stuartpb.plan][planfile postmortem] right now

[planfile postmortem]: f359a1e5-3e4f-4d30-8be3-0d0635c77ea4.md

## What Am I Up To, 2019-04-12?

Screwing around with [Barfspace Vision Quests][] and [overhauling some Unusual Studio Project entries][USPdates]

[USPdates]: 2e874825-eb8d-4b42-9c31-dfcf4f30a799.md
[Barfspace Vision Quests]: a8c1b237-886b-4169-88ff-9e52bc1dbcf2.md

## more, 2019-05-01

Expanding "Mindfulness Quests" out to [a larger Wellness nexus][Wellness], which I'm thinking knid of covers a lot of what I was thinking for Right Now? And, honestly, can't this page kind of take the rest? Just a constantly updating log of "here's what I was up to in the notes"?

[wellness]: 2087f1d7-55fa-4d8b-a4a0-01e4d8579047.md

just wrote a long old thing on what is currently termed [Musings][] about how the pages linked there should probably get factored off to further subpages for more juggling

[Musings]: 8f2359ae-186f-4878-b5e5-33f3c177e6fc.md

and now I'm getting a bit of deja vu like I might have covered this notion before somewhere else, like the Operations quests? should probably check that

I've been making a point to keep my link references in the first gap after the block I write them, as proposed in the call for best practices under the [Barfspace Vision Quests][BVQ] - I've decided it's better to just keep redundant symbols if you're going to link to the same page multiple times in a file (the renderer should be able to handle it okay, though I might want to look into what the spec behavior is supposed to be for this re: what happens if the targets don't match between multiple instances of the same tag).

[BVQ]: a8c1b237-886b-4169-88ff-9e52bc1dbcf2.md
