# Endeavors in Wellness and Mindfulness

This is a little page to reflect on stuff I'm doing to get myself mentally and physically healthier.

Many of these quests are about altering your environment to facilitate forming healthy habits.

## Open-Source Meditation Tips

What if Headspace, but Creative Commons (and not just recordings)?

## Jouralling and Checking In

The [Right Now][] nexus covers a lot of the stuff I do that's "in the now", but it's probably worth documenting and reflecting on how (and why?) I do it.

[Right Now]: 41218b84-cd08-48a5-b91a-865e8b90c46a.md

I'm moving the note from over there to here about writing [a postmortem on stuartpb.plan][planfile postmortem], which should probably then get linked... somewhere.

[planfile postmortem]: f359a1e5-3e4f-4d30-8be3-0d0635c77ea4.md

## Tidying Up

This should probably get its own whole page at some point.

Anyway, it's not *everything*, but I am making some progress by documenting [Project HOARD][HOARD]

[HOARD]: ab4e905a-db98-4ca2-a52d-93eaf8dc8ca4.md

The entire [experiment index][EI] has an interesting interplay with the stuff linked on this page, really.

[EI]: 9a2890e2-a0fa-4484-9c1e-3c7c7ec4f28a.md

## Posture

This is a little experiment I'm doing: looking at what keeps me hunching over, and seeing what it'll take to get me to sit up straight.

Right now (2019-05-01), I've put my montor on a box, so it's at eye level when I'm sitting upright, instead of hunched over.

## Sleep

I just (2019-05-01) got a nice new dim warm light for my room that I think helps me feel more ready for bed.

## Stickers, Post-Its, Posters, and Reminders

This is just a big list of little prompts that I think could help put me on track. Look at me, I'm a middle school classroom.

I'm not a big fan of doing these on a schedule, but having them in an Oblique Strategies like fortune file or something like that might not be a bad idea.

- [ ] Write some things on post-its and put 'em on your monitor:
  - [ ] "Slow Down, Be Kind"
  - [ ] "Feeling stuck? Breathe"

## A Gentle Reminder to Take Breaks

This would be a nice non-intrusive but omnipresent way of reminding me when I should take a break from everything and let my brain have a cool-down.

- [ ] See if you can develop an egg-timer-like little racehorse on a track or whatever that just silently drifts to the right over the course of like half an hour, and when it gets to the end it gradually lights a lightbulb.

## Supplements

- [ ] Build some kind of daily (week by week?) pill prompt for vitamins and supplements.

## Staying Hydrated

A water pouch is part of [my loadout][], and I've also got one at my desk.

[My loadout]: d9cb40c4-b0c0-49c4-94cc-5033dd9316f7.md
