# Unusual Studio Quest Arc

It would be cool if you could just go online and show people the things you're up to. (Oh, well, I guess [Quests][] sort of count, but something a bit more live than that.)

[Quests]: 6f25cf97-8ee8-460e-9db8-3c241cadbff0.md

This is also kind of a subset/adjunct to [the greater consultancy concept][job].

[job]: 739a91f4-cafa-414a-80ea-fefa66acd95b.md

Also, there's an Unusual-Studio-project-list-like thing on the [Barfspace Vision Quests][BVQ] page, currently described as Big "Bagtent/Barfspace Brainstorm Ideas" (should there maybe be a whole page collecting this idea)?

[BVQ]: a8c1b237-886b-4169-88ff-9e52bc1dbcf2.md

A lot of this is blocked on the "what do I do with ideas that wither into something else" question that's currently unsolved (I think there might be deliberation in a GitHub issue).

## Start Local, Think Global

Actually, maybe trying to start this project on Twitch wasn't a great idea. Let's figure out a way to make this happen locally.

- [x] Reach out to your first prospect.
  - [ ] You'll want to iron out your terms first.
    - [ ] Should there maybe be some kind of contract to sign?
  - [ ] You've... *kind of* done this, though they still haven't gotten back to you.
    - [ ] Maybe reach out again after more of the groundwork has been laid.
- [ ] Figure out some [initial terms][The Flow].
- [ ] Write up [an ad][] for Craigslist.

## Reworking the Project List / the Website

The current relationship between the website and the

- [x] Create a GitLab group for Unusual Studio.
- [ ] Move the website stuff to a GitLab Pages repo.
- [ ] Figure out how the Projects page should work.
  - [ ] Right now, I'm thinking the best thing would be keeping the Projects repo separate, and then integrating it as a submodule of the website Pages repo.

## A hairy quest to overhaul ideas

Not quite a quest, but there's [this blarf][] that talks about a lot of changes to projects.

[this blarf]: 2e874825-eb8d-4b42-9c31-dfcf4f30a799.md

## More Questions About Projects and Schemata

- [ ] Maybe think about why none of these projects are described as Stage 3.
  - [ ] Since nothing is ever really "done", IMO, this should probably be reworked as a stage like "No Longer My Problem", for when most deevlopment on the project happens outside the context of Unusual Studio.

## Having a Knowledge Base

It's cool to both have something you can refer clients back to, as well as some proof that you're not full of shit in the form of something you can point to.

- [ ] Work on moving / revising Lean Notes into this repository.

## Test Run

- [ ] Take on one of these other quests on-stream.
- [ ] Start using Quests here as "TODO" items on the Projects page (or start moving quests here to places that'd be more appropriate)?
  - [ ] This will probably be accomplished by putting all my "TODO" documents under their own pages in this repo, honestly, it's pretty freeing.

## Quest Structure

- [ ] Spend more time with this Quests structure before making further plans to integrate it into Unusual Studio.
- [ ] Maybe it would make sense to sort these "Quests" under both Arcs and Projects?
  - [ ] Allow users to vote / pay in at any level, and funds will be divided up beneath that somehow (evenly?)
  - [ ] The infrastructure to associate Projects to Quests is already in place (the "TODO" link points to a document giving a project's quests, in one form or another)
- [ ] Not all quests should be Unusual Studio Quests. How would it make sense to draw that line?
- [ ] Find a way to associate odd jobs into Unusual Studio, if not by using Quests.
  - [ ] Quests also work pretty well as Agendas, just saying...

## Bluetoot the Loveable Sidekick

- [ ] Program a server that will make sounds out of a Bluetooth speaker on certain stream events.
