# Craigslist ad, second draft

*Part of [the whole proto-Unusual-Studio consultancy project][job].*

[job]: 739a91f4-cafa-414a-80ea-fefa66acd95b.md

Whether it's an app, a website, a plastic widget, or just an issue with your computer that you wish were fixed, if you've ever had something you wanted to make for yourself, but wouldn't know where to begin, I'd like to help you with it. I want people to get specifically the help they need to solve their most immediate, pressing questions, tailored to their specific ideas, rather than trying to fit them into a boilerplate template / framework.

Over the course of the past decade, I've worked on literally hundreds of projects ranging from websites, to algorithms, to browser extensions, to mobile apps. I never settle for just cobbling things together using the things I already know: if there's a simpler, smarter way to do it that I haven't learned yet, I'll dive into it, because that's what ends up paying off in the long run.

If you reach out to me about what you have in mind (as much as you feel like saying up front), we can schedule a $100 90-minute consultation, and with my feedback, we'll figure out what I can do to help you get where you want to be. Sometimes, this consultation is all it takes (which is why, although I can be flexible about the duration, the cost of the consultation is non-refundable): sometimes, people find that their needs are satisfied with obscure solutions they didn't realize were already out there.

Often, we find in the consultation that there is something the client would like to learn how to make, or something they'd like to understand better. If we decide that your needs would be best met by something I can demonstrate, we'll continue together in one-hour sessions on a schedule that works for you. My base rate is $100/hour, though this rate can vary, per the client's needs and means.

I'm willing to travel anywhere that's reachable by a bus ride from my apartment near the Space Needle (which covers most of Seattle and the Eastside - for higher rates, I can go farther). I'm also willing to meet remotely, though I only use browser-based WebRTC apps like appear.in or talky.io for this (ie. nothing that requires a desktop installation like Skype or Zoom).
