# Tenets of Lean Notes

## The need Lean Notes tries to fill

I wrote Lean Notes because I felt the web was missing a site that helps people understand how to actually start something on the web, in detail that lets you know what's up to you and what's not.

## You don't *have* to do anything

You can ignore computers, or the Internet, or the Web, or HTML, or Github, or Git, or anything. These are all just popular solutions, and if you don't use them, you should be aware of what you're losing in terms of what they have to offer (and what you're gaining by picking something else). Keep in mind that popularity is a *huge* thing to gain/lose - it's the difference between having a thriving user base ready to help you make or use things on it, and not having one. (Not to mention how many people will not be able to use what you're making if you're trying to make something like a website without using the Web.)

## Guides, not tours

Lean Notes tells you where you can go and how to get there, but it doesn't tell you what you're going to do there.

## Take these tools *now*

Lean Notes doesn't have you learn the basics by making you repeatedly use the basics when something less basic would work better. That just teaches you to believe this stuff is tedious and non-powerful. (Example: I'm doing CodeHS, and we've done 20 lessons without learning loops, or even function arguments, so it's an exercise in writing the same function call several times in a row.)

Instead, it teaches you the basics with a case where there *is* an advantage to using those basics, and then it goes up and *immediately* teaches you where the more complex technique fits.

## Good practices get something done

We don't describe things like "write a precondition and postcondition of this function". Not only is that a bad way to think of functions (postconditions mean side effects, and that's rubbish), but it doesn't get anything done. It doesn't illuminate *anything*. That's your hint that it doesn't serve an actual purpose and should be omitted.

## What you need to know and understand

Lean Notes tells you what you need to know and understand to make websites. It doesn't teach them to you, but it does explain *what* the things at the level that you *will* encounter them, and why certain things are used so you understand the reasoning behind the decision (eg. why HTTP uses TCP and why there's UDP).

It doesn't exhaust every possibility or every detail of the history: that's Wikipedia's job (and primerprime's to a lesser extent). It's just here to convey what's at the top of an experienced web developer's mind.
