# Lean Notes: Introspection and Plans

[Background image](https://trello-backgrounds.s3.amazonaws.com/51901b73c30c061842001c4b/855b264131e032d589922fcb1020b0b2/truth.jpg)

I think this was the original "Meta" board for Lean Notes: it kind of looks like three different kinds of board crashed into each other.

That's the kind of structure these notes excel with, of course, so I'm going to make pages and sections here to describe the structure of this board, and those structures can spread out from here.

The first list was called Notes, and the first card on it:

## Meta-meta

This section is notes for myself- a sort of Lean Notes for building Lean Notes. It's not public, like the rest of the boards are. The ideas in it may be used to boil down to something said in the introduction, but it's not concerned with making ideas broadly acceptable like that introduction (as part of Lean Notes) is.

Also, some other Meta things (namely the Journal) may be incorporated as some kind of appendices.

One comment on this card: "I believe the above description predates the multiple Meta-board split, and the History board which is now a better explanation of what things are."

## The other two cards on the Notes list

The next card described the Lean Notes Glass Tubes Logo. I've kept an artifact for it [here](a5f16b63-8506-44ba-aadb-c8d3c8850af3.md): I can spec this up as its own thing at some point in the future. (This was a card I used to have for a lot of my projects: I think something like it should be kept for each project with a logo.)

The last card on the list was all about [Making a new board](b54cf3f7-1fe4-4e74-854d-8cbdf6efb631.md), and is largely of only historical interest today.

## The next list: Labels

The next list included the labels in use, and is most analogous to the [tag readme](ced13582-8e1a-4b38-9469-896206590dfb.md), which I just added any relevant information that could be gleaned from this list to (and then some, from memory).

## The next lists

The next page was called "Patterns", and I've added [a dedicated page for it](26186b36-081d-46b0-a36c-c49e82214766.md), and linked it from the Style meta page where it fits better.

The next list was "Automation", and I've made [a page to reflect on this abandoned aspect of this structure](0350c64c-4975-42fc-91ca-92007cd9bcaa.md)

The list after that was called "Design After Trello", and it was about converting the Trello boards to slideshows, which I have expanded out to a page [here](74f8f87c-f657-4a0f-ade3-c91571a01bd8.md).

## The last four lists

The last four lists were "To do", "Prospective Sections", "Doing", and "Done".

To Do, Doing, and Done were Trello's original three lists, so that's probably why they were here: "To do" only had a card called "Facebook page?", and "Doing" only had "Block out articles using Trello".

Done had a card about a Twitter account with some password-hint ops stuff I don't currently want to copy here (apparently I made a gmail account for Lean Notes?), and a card called "New Meta boards" that seems to have plotted out the splitting up of this Meta content.

I've split the "Prospective Sections" list into [an incubation page](c7f64330-dc66-45c4-ac6c-ca93ea8fdc63.md).
