# omg, thing I just realized

(post this to a meta page - DEFINITELY OOZY SEWER)

threads, these are threads

- specifically, these
  - like how they follow a train of thought
    - and are grouped into statements
      - and kind of nest like this in most formulations?
    - but can have "sibling comments" that go down another path
  - they're really easy to refactor
    - and to insert into when coming back later
      - even if you're just jumping around when initially creating / editing a file!
      - isn't that, ultimately, what replying is?
        - or, at least, that's how I structure my threads (and replies to others) on Twitter, and via email.
          - yeah, I post like at least three people at once. tcsh
  - and really easy to port
    - drop them into slides!
    - put them in a website blurb!

but yeah, they're like mailing lists and Reddit. And, you know, wiki talk pages

## (keanu voice) whoa

- okay, deja vu saying that last part... have I had this thought before?
  - link to page on how sometimes it's faster to write to a new file than try to buffer and search for the incoming content?
    - that overlaps the file servers stuff I was thinking about
    - This is why mapping Tab to Indent (and Shift+Tab to reverse) for a line is so important
      - You can do this in VS Code, and I have (and I believe Shift+Tab is then mapped automatically, which is incredible)
      - but it's inspired by the tab functionality in OneNote
      - It's not just for code: it helps for semantic refactoring (ie. "this is more of a sibling than a child" etc)

## how lists form

- sometimes parentheticals are what expand into list levels
  - and other forms of parenthetical with different spelling:
    - colon
    - hyphen "and then - like this - I parenthetisized"
    - commas, semicolons
    - ellipsis
      - this is one I just used naturally originally below: lists really are a great workflow UI facility...
    - whatever you call "linking words" (with commas, or maybe semicolons)?
  - and sometimes larger constructs shrink down to lists!
    - don't forget splitting off and making a new parag
  - really, when I say "parenthetical" here, I mean like any sort of natural thought joiner or list construction in the English language
    - examples of more complicated break points I've encountered (just in writing this page):
      - "X, where, if Y..." is *sort of* a linking-word construct?
    - (in reply to the parent of that list)
      - this one has a weird signifier at the top as a, like, "meta-child sibling"
        - which is, you know, a valid construct!
          - also, you know, in real life!
            - "he's my kid brother" etc
          - but it's one to, like, recognize can always exist in any form of data
            - and why you can't just go start divorcing things from context
            - you can call this the Kid Brother Problem, holy shit
    - and, you know, a kind of thought structure beneath it.
      - but I don't know how much that's influenced by the natural language of my thoughts?
      - I mean, even that "x where y" thing is influenced by programming languages, which are influenced by, what, Calculus? Isaac Newton?

## where that thought is leading to

(broken out child of the "how lists form" OP)

- like, really, this is starting to shape up to "things that a linter / editing tool would catch / provide UI affordances / hot-tip tool for"
  - another thought in this vein: "one sentence mode".
    - all lines are enforced to contain one sentence (ie. any dots)
    - doing a parenthetical at the end of a line like that last one would be disallowed
    - I'd like to make an exception for ending a line with a one-word reaction, like this one. yeah
      - that also makes it almost TAP compatible
      - also works as a truck for emoji reactions
        - you could even have them auto-hidden
          - this is starting to overlap with constructions I was thinking of for Dingroll
      - you could do multi-character... I'm thinking one-word "tags", really
        - in DingRoll I said "messages that are one-word strings of 4 or fewer characters"
          - but now I'm realizing, holy hell that would work amazingly as a Tumblr-esque / Twitter-esque "tagging" method
            - haha, this would make end-of-line hashtags
          - but yeah, I think this is more just "cool ways the DingRoll tagging system could operate"
            - posting with a hashtag like this basically retweets a message to another tag,
              - and it shows up like a quoted tweet, or, like, a Slack react... I mean, it'd be as a "Faces +X gave reaction Y"
          - but yeah...
            - okay, maybe this is me caving to "threading in DingRoll!" requests...
              - but hey, Lua 5.2 gave in to "break as a loop construct" AND "have goto at all"
                - and hopefully this expansion
              - but Replies can be another class of post in DingRoll (or whatever system this could be).
                - they naturally parent to a comment, and inherit its tags
                - wait, can't you just have the parent comment become a tag? and then "reply" puts it in its filter?
                  - and can take it off to make its context "reply-only", ie, not copying the channel
                    - this would allow admins to go "okay guys take it to a thread"
                      - continues under the "oh snap, what about DingRoll" heading
        - actually, remember, multi-character is the way to express many emoji constructs
    - a kind, polite way to implement this would be to, like, map the construction of a new sentence to the creation of a new list item, like this:
      - once the user has typed a dot, a space,
      - IMPORTANT NOTE THOUGH: You'd need to have some way to cancel easily and quickly and maybe automatically by a rule
        - Another thought though, and this ties into a broader theme in UI design: these "don't activate the feature" carveouts
          - And you can't just throw AI at this, either. It's better if it's something the user can either easily adjust, or adjust to
            - If they constantly need to second-guess the machine under circumstances that shift, it's more frustrating than jsut doing it transparently
    - another angle to consider refactorization: Lines Beyond the Right Margin
      - like, in tandem with the last idea, you could have that be the "kill line", where, if you have a dot at the end of your sentence and it's not, like, backslash-escaped (remember, that's totally cool under the normal parse rules of Markdown!) - o
- and sometimes it's just a need to parenthetisize or break up a run-on sentence
- think of it as structuring statements in a post-paragraph format
  - or "thoughts"
- sometimes a

TODO: spawn a page for this idea off of [Markdown Editor Enhancement Ideas](87c2f51c-8e9c-4c83-adf9-744b806ac028.md)

## oh snap, what about DingRoll

Like, how does the document system model of DingRoll intersect with

- having the IDs be ULIDs would make them nice for indexing
  - it'd mean you'd have to repost a document to backdate it, though
    - and that'd mean you'd have no
  - unless you mandate a "Backdate announcement" object for the change to be accepted
    - and any removal of that backdate can only be accompanied by a removal of the backdate that would orphan
      - Hmm, this *is* starting to sound like a Bagtent validation rule...
    - or the "Backdate" is a "virtual backdate"
  - or, you know, you just forbid backdating, and if you want to rebase you do the whatever-
  - but, wait, no, you always need at least some degree of backdating
    - because, you know, connections have latency
    - also, this allows for offline stuff
      - and, you know, the Latertime construct stuff described here
  - oh hey wait no yeah you can have it both ways
    - the IDs can enforce a freshness
      - like maybe they're even a delta...
        - but now we're getting into blockchains
          - if anything, this'd be where I switch to Dat
            - or whatever has mutliple-poster support
    - but the metadata (frontmatter)
  - a weird idea, and I think this is somewhat off-topic?
    - but what about using Pouch attachments for this
      - The document is the frontmatter and the body is the attachment
      - Haven't I thought this is the part where you should always fork off to a blob store?
        - But, like, for the Stubernetes Workspace Project's purposes, the blob store would still absolutely be Work
          - even if it requires Bulk Storage capacity, like you're versioning psds or whatever
            - but, like, the point is, Work is classified to have a Bulk storage capacity, and to contain the canonical records of (or, you know, state you don't want to lose) whereas the whole point of

## was I talking about Markdown as Data?

I guess this is something you pretty much develop by just writing transformations on an mdast tree

what was XML Translations like? Succinct?

Oh, what about JQ format? or Go's template language?

But I thought I had a page about how there'd be a neat natural-mapping-base from Markdown to trees

you could use some kind of selector like "kind"="heading"::nth-child... I guess that's kind of just CSS, huh

Oh snap, am I ultimately just describing a tidy HTML data description mapping? Can it be two-way?

Oh dog, can this be the basis for a usage of custom elements as a serialization construct

so you could have the "just html" serialization layer as a fallback (read: what's initially transmitted to the client on render), then have a two-way "custom-element-to-HTML" mapping (which converts them to "native data")

and then you don't need to repeat yourself on the data, you're transmitting the initial state as part of the page

this is probably stuff React has? but, like, I don't know if "round trip Markdown serialization" is something I hear all that much

(this stuff can probably merge over to that page, the markdown-to-trees one - or at least link to what this section is becoming)

[Semantic Markdown](60205bb0-13ba-4730-a571-5b884a001314.md) is I think what I was looking for here

starts to overlap with a call for a [jq-like Markdown parser](7048da8c-32dd-47a9-a140-ec8959b2dd73.md)

## another nearby idea to that one

Did I say PICO-8 Literal Cartridges yet?

Anyway, you'd have it be MArkdown, and all the parts that constitute data that goes into the cartridge would be in the form of code blocks - the first line being a fenceline with:

- `lua p8 (options)` for Lua code
  - Options:
    - tab to render to
    - whether to append to the previous code line, prepend, or insert
      - or maybe even replace, if we're inventing some new kind of inheritance model
        - I'm kind of thinking of Pug's "blocks" here
          - You maybe could even have a naming/selector construct
            - let's not go so far we need frontmatter involved, though
              - remember, *literate*: the semantics should be visible from the *text*
              - that being said, metadata like these headlines/fencelines for code placement should be exposed by the renderer
                - I could *swear* there's already a standard for Literate Programming code block assembly, though

## Bagtent Tree Structure Joins the Brawl!

(this should get linked into the Big Brawl Project Ball)

Looking at systems like Dynamicland and Observable and other stuff I've seen like that (and crossing over as well with the Spatial ID Model thing I described [here](0580b9f0-528e-44a3-a31d-369ceb33aadf.md) / above)

## 3D Position Spatial Identifiers?

I guess this is really more of a "3D Index" - or, really, just a weird path /serialization model

Anyway, I guess the thing I was thinking was that it might be neat to have each axis be on a, like, one-byte X/Y/Z grid, and with some kind of simple

A thing I'm realizing with all of this is you really have to model all of these spatial systems by their objects' local origin, and decide how you're defining "origin", and how I'd recommend picking the center but, you know, you can have objects declare how they want to be "anchored", and/or you can make that mandatory for a certain class of object (like having all "character sprite images" be anchored from the bottom, I don't know)

## Another PICO-8 thought

At this point, we are *way* off topic, but: 2048x2048 Visible Mondo Megacartridge

Like, instead of supporting an insanely-large space, you support... like a spritesheet's worth of pixels, but each pixel is a cartridge, or something like that, I don't know

## did I mention refactoring?

- I'm kind of, like, writing six different pages on this page right now.
  - using headings and lists makes that easier to break out appropriately later
  - And, of course, sometimes I just need to refactor a tree / sentence into another kind/level of tree
  - When you're editing different parts of a tree
    - (whether they're different siblings in a list or different sections in a document)
    - you tend to jump around
      - you know, thoughts forking, more context needed for two different chains, things like that

## Speaking of IDE support

VS Code lets you collapse lists by hovering / clicking in the margin between text and line numbers, just like functions etc.

## Ooh, can this be another pattern to support: Scratchpad Notes?

Like, I just write the sections and not really care what page they go on, and then I'll drag them into place on their own pages later

I can even use the Scratchpad as a Loose Notes or similar construct, and instead of "tearing off the loose roll" I "tack another length onto the roll"

It's interesting how this inversion came *after* it was no longer a pain in the ass to conjure and insert pages (thanks not only to `bagtent-conjure --open`, but also `bin/validate` to allow me to conjure new files without worrying about them getting lost among new files I *had* hooked up)

also, this reflects how the big problem with my current editing model has become an overabundance of open tabs - keeping everything to one document helps me create-and-close a little more effectively

also, having everything in one file like this makes it easier to find a thought within it via ctrl+f. this is a problem that a proper search implementation (at least UI-wise) would ameliorate. maybe I should get more comfortable with Code's searcher?

or, really, my Kubernetes cluster is getting close to ready, I'll just Theia it

I can have Scratchpads be a different editing pane or whatever in the Theoretical Workspace, just like the Table of Contents

The thing is that the Table of Contents / Sidebar needs to navigate to files in the *navigation* pane

Also probably in Code?

Hey, have I envisioned a version of this where it works like Norton Commander?

## reverse-lookup model for reachability?

like, couldn't I just make a tool that, like bagtent-orphans, doesn't do fancy mdast parsing, it just does a grep on the noteball to see if any files have a reference to it... and then it does that recursively until it hits the root

(speaking of bagtent-orphans, and a name for this, I did a little brainstorming [here](0e14e0c1-2202-4673-8198-bd58dbc1a337.md))

what, and each grep searches for "every UUID that was included in this file"?

the grep probably wouldn't be too bad if you grouped them by first byte, and maybe invoked 16 processes

and I guess you'd, like, maintain a list of files whose inbound link filenames have been grepped for, and only grep files that are linking we hadn't already reached

also, I really should introduce a proper linter that checks link viability on a selection of files

Should I just use xargs?

## thing I didn't post in the continuation of that "like wiki talk pages"

(just because that's the part I got deja vu over and want to search for in these notes later to see if there's something to absorb from it)

it was gonna be "wiki talk pages (or if you're TV Tropes, the main content pages, lel)"

## UI thought

lists really are a great workflow UI facility... you could present them with the hyphen (when typed and in-place as a list item) as a draggable handle (and right-clickable / double-clickable / ctrl+clickable / just clickable idk)

## what about headings?

- they're a nice way to escape the "list level" and go into "headings level" of the tree
  - did I have a thought about a structure like this in the past? like a translation format from markdown headings/lists to YAML?
    - definitely remember having a page about that somewhere around here
    - and how "paragraphs between lists" and "code block as the section's content" are also semantic data formats

## another thing linters should have

- detect if I've somehow included a link to the current page on itself
  - not that I think that'd be a problem but it's dumb, and often a sign I forgot to copy the right link
