# 3D Printing Filament Materials

(work-in-progress stub under [Everybody Gets a Factory][EGAF])

[EGAF]: 8cbd867d-1a63-4d1f-9c83-cab019fe87bd.md

## ABS

ABS was the first really easily available filament. It's strong, but it has a bunch of downsides that are fixed by newer filament types (among other things, you need an enclsure while printing it, as it's the only filament I know in modern use that produces toxic vapors when printed - due to the rubberized chemicals mixed into the material, melting ABS smells like a tire fire).

These days, the only reason you'll be printing in ABS is because you've got a filament with some kind of enhancement that you can't find mixed into a more FFF-friendly material. PLA has solidly taken the top spot for general use, and PETG has seized what's left of durability-oriented printing. There's still some interest in ABS for vapor-smoothing, but even that is better handled by ASA.

## PLA

corn plastic that's crisp: will generally break before it bends. This can be a feature as much as it's a defect: breakaway support is easier to break away, and when a PLA part breaks, you can generally glue it back together.

## PETG

bottle plastic

PETG is the polar opposite of PLA in that it doesn't break, but it bends *easily*.

## ASA

ASA is the new ABS, from what I hear

## Nylon

hot and durable

## Polycarbonate

hot and... strong?

## TPU and TPE

Flexible.

I'm not 100% sure if there's a difference between TPU and TPE. I think there's more variance in different grades of the same stuff.

## PVA

Water-soluble support.

## HIPS

Limonene-soluble support.

## CPE

"CPE" is [what Ultimaker calls PETG](https://ultimaker.com/materials/cpe), from what I hear, so you might want to scroll up a bunch.

It can *also* stand for Chlorinated Polyethylene (or something like that).

## Cleaning filament

I mean, you wouldn't *print* with it, but I should probably cover it nonetheless
