# Age Thresholds to Know

These are age brackets you might want to categorize users across in your schemata

For other thougts on designing structures like this, check out [this messay node](458f8a16-f237-4f8e-8e17-474408732536.md)

The below is just off the top of my head, to give an idea of my planned structure for this page: it's not exhaustive, and it's more of a note sketching what the actualy page I'm looking for that probably already exists would look like.

## 10 years

- E10 ESRB rating

## 13 years

- Written parental consent age bracket for COPPA.

## 16 years

- Minimum driving age in many US states.

## 17 years

- NC-17 MPAA film rating minimum age
- ESRB Rated M (Mature 17+) minimum age for Entertainment Software
  - (this system is also used for general-audience apps in places like the Play Store)

## 18 years

- Age of adulthood in most of the US.

## 21 years

- Minimum drinking age in most of the US.

## Out of scope for this page

(as in, don't submit pull requests adding this stuff)

- [Age of consent laws](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Age_of_consent) (beyond the COPPA thing, which is pretty commonly applicable across most all-ages-suitable service cases) are documented pretty thoroughly on Wikipedia, among other places.
  - Dating/hookup apps might need to be versed in this stuff, but I think an 18+/age-of-adulthood restriction, paired with a clear waiver, terms of service, and code of conduct (and documented enforcement procedure) are considered sufficient to cover, like, most MMOs. (That said, I am not a lawyer, and I'd be glad to replace this part with a link to a more authoritative source.)

## See also

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Minimum_ages - this page is basically meant to be like a pivot of that

Might be worth making a side version of this incorporating religious law / spiritual beliefs, for use in, you know, designing those.
