# Junkyard Daydreams

This is a page aggregating various broken things I have.

For software bugs that aren't as fun to "fix", see [General Papercuts][GP].

[General Papercuts]: d07f30ca-f065-4fb7-9541-b09b656313c5.md

appropriately enough, this page was originally cobbled together from scrap material in the list of [Quests][]

[Quests]: 6f25cf97-8ee8-460e-9db8-3c241cadbff0.md

For improving stuff that isn't totally junk, see [Desktop Quests](445ae6d8-5796-43b7-8648-704c8ebb9e18.md)

## The Broken Headphones

These are still a perfectly good pair of Bluetooth headphones, it's just that the one hinge is broken. You know, that headband was never all that comfortable in the first place...

- [ ] See if you can get the headband disassembled for replacement.

## This Nice Bag

I have this Michael Kors bag I got in a Fukobukuro a while back: I'm disassembling the parts into a few different things.

The strap can be remade into an umbrella sheath/quiver - I have a design in mind for how I'd like to print this.

(Also, on the subject of umbrellas, I've got a few designs I'd like to do in that vein, especially around making a new cane-tip umbrella, or a new tip that could work like that. Maybe just printing adapters is good enough?)

For the bag itself, I'm thinking I could print clips for each end that give them the interface for guitar straps, of which I have the one that came with my electric guitar that is also second-hand.

## other miscellaneous broken plastic shit

- lid on my Brita pitcher
- Bubba cap
- clasp on this one backpack
- old SteelSound heaphones
- IJOY LOGO with bad shielding
- both of those Bauhn earbuds, one way or another

## I Don't Work Here

- [ ] Add a note to https://willithack.com/izon that you can't and won't provide support over email, and that questions must be directed to the issues page.
