# State of the Prototype

Or, "My Current Experiments in Printing Beads"

## Pearl print settings by position

All of these pearls are printed with:

- 100% infill
- 0 solid top/bottom layers
- Support enforced for the first 20 layers

Pearl 2/59 is printed with Rectilinear infill, 2 shells

Pearl 29/32 is printed with Concentric infill, 0 shells

Pearl 21/40 is printed with Archimedean Chords, 2 Shells

Pearl 10/51 is printed with Archimedean Chords, 1 Shell

Pearl 11/50 is printed with Archimedean Chords, 3 Shells

Pearl 20/41 is printed with Archimedean Chords, 4 Shells

Pearl 12/49 is printed with Archimedean Chords, 5 Shells

Pearl 19/42 is printed with Archimedean Chords, 6 shells

Pearl 3/58 is printed with Rectilinear infill, 6 shells

Pearl 28/33 is printed with 15 shells (negating infill) - this is different from 0 Shells Concentric Infill because it fills gaps.

Pearl 27/34 is printed with 15 shells and the first layer being 0.1mm.

Pearl 4/57 is the same (salvage from a test to see if this thinner first layer, which has negligible improvement, would lead to reliability issues).

Pearls 6/55, 15/46, and 23/37 are all from a print run that got halfway through a 12-up print (see "first plate test" below). This puts me halfway through having the whole strip beaded, though the pearls for either end still need to be designed, for how they're gonna be connected etc.

Pearl 14/47 came from a print that was cancelled watching the same plate for issues: turns out Slic3r isn't accounting for the cable bundle coming out of the extruder, which is what knocked the first piece off both times

At this point, I decided to go for all-at-one plates instead. This entailed a bunch of headaches, detailed [here](3a4dd7b3-c66e-41e0-891a-9b39fbb24c97.md).

After this, all prints with this filament will be starting at 220C, regardless of whether it's plated or not.

I got all the common beads except 5, 9, 13, 18, 22, and 26 done by the first plate, and the rest were attached with beads from the second.

## aside abut said crimping thoughts

I'm thinking I might DuPont crimp the data line on this plug, and then screw-terminal the power line together

now, wouldn't that suggest that you'd, say, screw terminal the electric lines in, and then have a pin...

okay, so, using the power-wires would only make sense if we were wiring the strip in a bigger circuit, where we'd want to splice in more supply. I should de-solder them, and then use them to connect batteries or things like that.

I might also solder a 3.3V regulator onto the pins, since I've got so many, and I could use it with a dupont-crimped-for-power-lines hacked USB-A (or, hell, maybe even C, or a B port - side thought, is it possible to maybe desolder the Lightning cable in my vest battery to replace it with USB-C for power? Could it work both ways?)

## first plate test

I'm now trying a 12-piece print. Turned the skirt height down to 1 layer, because otherwise it left the first piece to travel the perimeter for skirt, which is unacceptable (never got through those three layers alive).

It'd be nice if it were easier to cancel instances like objects for a plate like this: would be easier if the positions were auto-named, if I didn't have to right-click and select "As Separate Object" for each one, if I could reorder the pieces for printing or select a visit strategy (either for one-by-one or all at the same time)

THOUGHT: What if G-code were exported as an array of "here's the line of gcode, here's the time estimate, here's the object/instance it's built for" so this kind of manipulation can be done without comment hackery

## Results while printing plate

First piece came loose sometime between the second print starting (finishing?) and some time into the third one - was within range for me to quickly pull it

that'd be another nice feature: "pause after this next part"

Got 6 done in total before it failed possibly between top-center-left and mid-center-left.

You know, why cancel instances of the same part? You can just set it to cancel at same temperature and restart the plate

anyway

thoughts on a redesign (TODO: link this in) aside, I'm going to try printing with 3X layer infill for the next test bead, no plates involved. 100% (Archimedean Chords). Might try concentric, too.

Welp, it failed (see below) - maybe I should try 2x...

or maybe I should just try a redesigned interlock mechanism

## Bailed experiments

- Printing vertically. Surprisingly, this made it *harder* to snap the halves together.
- Hilbert or Octagram Spiral fills. The Hilbert one was just too refractive, and I could tell I'd have the same issues on Octagram

## Failed experiments

- Merging every 3 layers of infill - this turned into a little plastic snake.
