# Cover letters for Disney jobs

## Sr Software Engineer (OneID)

re https://jobs.disneycareers.com/job/seattle/sr-software-engineer/391/11284014

I believe I would be an excellent candidate for this position. I am proficient in many programming languages beyond JavaScript, such as Lua, C, and Bash. I've designed and developed many solutions spanning several technologies, determine which is appropriate for each situation and treading lightly in complex environments.

## SDET (Parks)

I'm constantly uncovering edge cases in the systems I interact with, like entering passwords containing spaces, or consisting entirely of spaces, or being over a certain length. (I think I might have even run into one of these issues on the Disney Parks site in the past)

## Sr Software Engineer (Parks)

Been using Node.js since 2012

I've implemented numerous REST services, from IoT device APIs to update a wearable screen to a realtime messaging signalling platform.

I've done coding, technical design, and end-to-end testing for my projects

I'm known for clearly documenting my own work products and review and contributing to the documentation across multiple projects: I've been the impetus for more than one team I've joined to start actively using an internal wiki.

I'm current with trends in the technology marketplace: I'm always learning about what's on the horizon, with systems like Kubernetes, which I've been familiarizing myself with for container orchestration.

## Parks background

(also writing to [parks boneyard](51f96a55-afd6-41f6-8319-3fe6b29ad3ac.md))

Going back to Walt's original vision of an Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow, I think the Disney Parks are marvels of modern engineering. I've played Sorcerors of the Magic Kingdom, I've read the NFC tag on my MagicBand, and I've worked with the Fastpass+ system. I would love to contribute to this ecosystem.
