# Right Now: Anything New, Exciting, or Different

This is a page pointing to pages for stuff that's on the forefront of my mind, sort of like an "open tabs".

I last overhauled this page at the end of June 2019: [here](4af24c31-8b8f-4278-af40-262389fbf415.md) is a snapshot of most of that content.

I've moved it into a subpage to copy/retrieve from, as much of its content was dedicated to my switching away from GitPod to edit these notes (written in a frantic hurry to commit before I ran out of time).

## Current state of the notestack

I've got [minikube running on stushiba](fe1645de-c2fc-4836-a338-eafae0c7e0af.md) and am using it to get the hang of [Kubernetes](f7ab56ca-06db-4c96-808f-4d0b0ee47819.md), where I intend to migrate my work on these notes to.

For all of July 2019, I've been editing my notes in a VS Code window on Stushiba, which has given me an appreciation for all the features VS Code has.

The bagtent-orphans script is getting pretty creaky (as we approach 1000 note nodes, the n^2 performance of `grep` for each filename is getting prohibitive). Luckily, I've just discovered the `remark` library, which seems like the ideal way to do a breadth-first search instead.

I also really need to get [The Shotclock and Integrity](df25aada-7f8c-420c-97bc-51366556b6be.md) implemented - really, once I have `bagtent-distance` implemented (which allows for the real test I want instead of `bagtent-orphans`, which is reachability from the root note), I can go ahead and start running this again. (The thought of losing work because I didn't have this autosync is really bumming me out, and the kind of thing that usually causes me to give up on things.)

I'm considering either base32-encoding the UUIDs, or using an all-new random format, that would make working with the random filenames a little easier.

## The job thing

I'm moving forward with Triplebyte, which is really exciting. (No page for it right now, though, since I don't have the bandwidth to manage the overhead of documenting my job search  *and* pursing it at the moment.)

## Wedding stuff

I developed [lumpkin](93fce556-92a2-4e8b-8005-1e8455abec91.md) for sending out our Save the Date emails, and will likely be hacking on it further to send out future wedding correspondence (like invitations).

## Maker stuff

I've got these plastic clips holding a WS2812 strip on my desk. I intend to use this for some kind of productivity tool, but am currently stalled on not having the resources to dedicate a NodeMCU chip to running it.
