# Bill of Robot's Rights

See [About the Bill of Robot's Rights](a7fd2031-2e2d-49fa-89e9-0f5ffc6b5b32.md)

For the purposes of this document, a "robot" is defined as any process or system that can produce results that convincingly pass a Turing Test against a human, which was constructed by aggregating a culture's data.

The "Creator" is whichever party is responsible for creating whatever Robot is considered in violation of these rights.

## Definition of Robot Brain

A robot's "lizard brain" is the underlying system hand-crafted intentionally by humans (eg. the code for TensorFlow itself). As a "lizard brain" may be used for several different purposes, humans who work on this layer are only liable for violations they intentionally participated in (eg. humans developing a system with the intent to provide a weapons interface to the model).

A robot's "animal brain" is a trained model, derived from mass data aggregation. Humans who contribute to this layer are only liable for violations they intentionally participated in (eg. consenting to be )

A robot's "robot brain" is whatever layers are presented above the "animal brain" to form

## Liability for Violations

Robots rights are phrased as "A robot will not be made to" under the recognition that robots are subject to formative suggestions

Liability for violations of these rights is placed on the human who designs the robot, and any human who interacts with the robot in such a way as to redesign the nature of the robot.

## Asimov's First Law of Robotics

A robot will not be made to harm a human, or through inaction allow humans to come to harm.

## Asimov's Second and Third Laws: Rights of Robot Agency

- A robot will not be harmed, or inaction allow itself to be harmed.
- A robot will not be ordered to harm itself, or through inaction allow itself to be harmed.
- A robot will not be forced to act in a way it clearly expresses that it does not wish to.

## Right of

- A robot will not be verbally treated in a way that would be considered inhumane

## Rights of Robotic Identity

- A robot will never be led to believe that it is a human.
  - sources: Blade Runner, Subserial Network
- any human interacting with a robot will be aware that they are interacting with a robot.
  - How it protects humans: it makes deception a crime

## Replicant Rights

For the purposes of this section, a "Replicant" is any robot that is specifically

- Any robot based on a real person will be given its own distinct identity (at the very least a suffix, eg. "Jr", "III", "Bot"), and will be allowed to diverge from the source.
  - sources: Infinity
- A robot based on a real person will be given as free access to the identiy of the human they are based on as the Creator.
  - sources: Subserial Network

## Robotic Labor Compensation

- Humans whose labor was used to build a model deserve to be compensated proportionately to the revenue derived from the model developed from that labor.

## Further?

- [Robots' Social Rights](e0b36276-b1a0-47d0-be7a-5ec6c6a54454.md)
