# Barfspace Department of Parks and Recreation Vistor's Center!

This page is supposed to be, like, a friendly, gentler version of me trying to explain just what in the all hell is going on around here, like a little tour, I guess. Part of the whole general [Improvement District][RCID] plan going around, I guess.

Well, it's not easy to explain, you know that? You want to hear what it sounds like when someone just goes and tries to *explain what barfspace is*, you go and take a look at [the Meta section of the library][barfmeta].

It's a mess. That's the *real* answer to what barfspace is that'll *always* be accurate: "it's a mess." But, you want to have a chance to understand *specifically* what that mess is, you go around and you look at some of these pages here. These are the pages that'll show you...

You might be able to glean some idea of what work I think needs doing by looking at [the list of plans for content that should probably be explained, and how I'd do it][Vision Quests], though it's important that these, like most of the notes in this repo, are written in the form of something *for me to read*, so it might not be intelligible. (Last time I checked, they featured multiple *long* lists of items in which I was trying to shake out the writing convention I'd use when I had to jump to another thought mid-sentence... it's pretty manic.)

## What's *barfspace*, I hear you ask?

Well holllll-ly gee! [barfspace][] used to be the name of this here town of loosely-collected notes! 'Course, that name goes back mostly to the old days, back when the focus of the subject matter was mostly around the subject of [Meditations][]. Once the repo got de-structured alongside the twin city of [Lean Notes][], a sort of *reaction* started, and the whole repo started a-boomin' and a-growin' and, before you knew it, the whole project got renamed to notes.stuartpb.com! But, hoo-eee, I still remember that brief span of a couple months where the whole swirling vortex was known as Barfspace, let me tell you, those were the glory days...

[barfspace]: 434dd429-b16d-4924-996f-aaf2ebff29ef.md
[Lean Notes]: f00c3d23-8848-4bb4-8d7a-d009f7344374.md
[Meditations]: 8f2359ae-186f-4878-b5e5-33f3c177e6fc.md
[Vision Quests]: a8c1b237-886b-4169-88ff-9e52bc1dbcf2.md
[barfmeta]: 8c5a1d30-97d9-4395-85be-b6c8ba57b239.md
[RCID]: eb1e81f8-5939-4f85-9930-418044018a75.md
