# Possible ways for Learning Journeys to evolve

re: [this page](9403033b-a238-47d1-865b-4e1baa0f2577.md)

## Yeah okay

taking all the stuff below into account

This should be split into separate pages for the Lean-Notes-like "here's a variety of projects under this umbrella" level (like the "Browsers" and "System Scaffolding" page links), which doesn't list sub-projects on the page itself (and the pages can have overlapping links), and then "Here's a list of all the project notes once, in arbitrary/activity order, no categorization"

call them "the stacks" and "the heap"

## note on Lean Notes overlay

Kind of dovetails with [Lean Notes](f00c3d23-8848-4bb4-8d7a-d009f7344374.md), in a way, though Lean Notes tends to slice by aspect, and this tends to slice by technology (though I expect those lines to blur going forward).

This should really just get merged into Lean Notes as something like an index/subsection for "notes as I discover them", like, just the "software" stuff - the rest can be moved to the Lean Notes hub.

## further consideration

It might make sense to have this devolve into a page linking off to more subject-oriented pages, where I have a "Journals-like section" for pages where Log links and understandings Journals-style. (This is happening now, kind of - we'll see how "sectional" the Journal sections get, and I'm not sure I'm breaking at the right level at the moment. Might need to get more subject-and-tavern-y: maybe just as the number of researched topics gets further bigger.)

There can also be an Academy-of-Barfspace-owned page exploring the Journals structure, like the one exploring Quests. **(that would be this page now, obviously)**

## Another thought on reworking that page

(based on recent visit/deposition patterns)

This should be reoriented as like "Tech Project Topics"

and maybe there's Lean Notes's kind of "Categorical Topics" like "Three-Dimensional Space" and "Geolocation"

and maybe a tavern between the two?

IDK, actually this kind of treeing is kind of useful?

(rereads above section) Okay, so... there should be a page for "Fields of Study" (where I'm liable to dive deeper and add more pages and explore more tools and all of that), and there should also be a page for, like, "Here are my Git Notes and Lua Notes" - maybe that's "Idle Studies"?

There should also be a page collecting "my own original references", like the page documenting the GNOME Wallpaper format? maybe Data and Reference Sheets splits off a sibling?

Also, I think it's important to distinguish "these are notes I'm writing as I learn the thing" versus "these are my notes having surveyed the space a fair bit", idk
