# The Role of the News Page

The thing about stuartpb.plan is that it didn't have a way to track "dormant stories". If I wasn't working on a thing, I'd just erase it, and rewrite it when I got back to it.

As I've noted before, stories and narratives are the first-class data structure of my mind (and I think everybody's, really).

And thus changes of historic note can be tracked by watching the evolution of the tree, across those structures. Relevant historical details are kept, and irrelevant ones are summarized and dropped, only accessible through Git history.

News was for when I didn't/don't have the clarity to put my work into a narrative...

and I'm not sure that everything *going* in a narrative is such a good thing? It seems like a sign that I'm out of myself. The point of News was to focus on how my life is going through stuff.

But I think I just don't want to publicize that.

So maybe True News should be in my private-but-not-protected (ie. I interact with it without requiring the backing store be encrypted at rest) notes.

I'm looking at how the last thing I dropped on here is my notes on Firefox...

which I find now by digging through Right Now. I generally find that I never think of things in terms of *when they happened* (I can't tell you when any part of Lean Notes was originally written without looking, not even down to the year) - and that "going back to retrace the concept chain to the next" is a crucial

So yeah, I'll let this be tracked in Git history, and this can become the real "e/n blog posty" section (with a proper Secret Diary as the Private Notegraph)

---

I just ran into an old News page that had some relevant stuff to a page I just made, and it made me realize: there should be a dedicated squad to recovering unintegrated thoughts from these notes and moving them to the appropriate pages.

Also, there should maybe be a place to register "big explosions", in case I forget to do all the interlinking around the created explosion that it deserves. (This'd probably be a branch off of Right Now, and would chronicle small integrations within the notes like a mini Camp-Papalima.)
