# The Basement

Here's a page of crappy dead ends and lost works I can't quite bear to throw away, because they spark joy or whatever.

## [exit codes][]

Documentation for the standard reasons I'd exit a thread (read: conversation).

You know that thing where someone's just being incredibly tedious and awful, so you just want to walk away? This is for that, except the idea is that you can drop a hyperlink to help them better understand *why* they're being tedious, and what they could do to *not* be tedious in the future.

## [Waxhead Revisited][]

A gonzo walkthrough for cheesy 90s FMV point-and-click adventure game [Are You Afraid of the Dark? The Tale of Orpheo's Curse](http://orpheoscurse.wikia.com/wiki/The_Tale_of_Orpheo's_Curse), to give me an outlet for florid prose for when I'm feeling nostalgic and/and drunk.

## [human-civilization-walkthrough.txt][walkthrough]

This is supposed to be a joke in the vein of the [GameFAQs walkthrough for Problem Sleuth](http://www.mspaintadventures.com/?s=4&p=000816) (maybe crossed with [this t-shirt](https://www.topatoco.com/bestshirtever/)), where it gives the "strategy" for "winning" at various points in human civilization, as a history of what technologies came about when. like, "don't waste your time with Alchemy - it doesn't work." or "If you try building a steam engine out of rocks, you will fail."

That is, I think it'd be easier to take a look at How To Invent Everything, but adding the lens of surrounding society, to understand how certain innovations didn't come out circumstantially until certain times, ie. "Don't start a pirate fleet until your opponent starts having a robust shipping network".

An older conceptualization of this premise was kind of crappy, which is how this page landed here. With this rewritten framing, this idea is maybe salvageable, but it does run into the issue my older quibble noted: a lot of historic "strategy" was deeply morally dubious, and even to deprecate them as "bad strategies in the long term" is to engage in just-world delusion.

So, I don't know.

[exit codes]: 118eb717-47fc-4af6-91e3-5d533f942883.md
[Waxhead Revisited]: b88b515a-f237-4ee3-be29-ec06385544a6.md
[walkthrough]: 74280a1e-b327-461d-b62a-e123d09bda0c.md
