# Right Now circa June 2019

(The fact that GitPod doesn't actually sync open tabs may have led into the drive to create this.)

On that subject, the first page I want to link in here is [my notes on GitPod](5018398f-fa13-45a5-98ac-d640fe4d5a41.md), because its limitations are at the forefront of my mind (and it's why I'm suddenly feeling an urge to commit pages like this that'll let me resume them in another environment).

Oh geez, I have 5 hours left this month, and this sucker is creaking, time to commit and push

even if I weren't about to lose gitpod access, having too many file tabs makes the editor take a while to open

## Speaking of cloud IDEs categorically

Also, nuts, I've only got two weeks until Cloud9 stops letting me access workspaces, shiiiiit - I need to find another solution, quick

Tracking this as [Closing Time](b7c6ef38-0130-439b-aad1-40eb31ada49c.md)

the way I'm handling it right now is to use [Code (OSS)](73ce0d7f-758e-40ef-ae0a-c37e4a5bf2cd.md) on a local machine, which isn't great, but it's not the worst - I'm going to look into a minikube-based solution in a bit

## Update

The thesis that I don't feel a need to track this when the open-tab state is trackable has been borne out by my activity since switching to VS Code on my desktop.

More thoughts on how this page can interface with others is tracked at [The Right Now Outpost](ddde8098-c504-4113-a1e2-6540aeb16eb1.md)

## applying to jobs

I'm [applying to jobs](75a6548a-eec5-438c-9008-77b42867a9e2.md).

## Writeups

I'm making moves to get started writing [articles on some of the stuff I've invented](f1403399-a887-4262-aac6-292035465eab.md).

## Initiatives for notes.stuartpb.com

The [June Judgment](b7b835c5-d843-4888-ae53-bd8aef36d5cd.md) has been drafted as a dictate for [Operation Trapper Keeper](1da0f61f-c2bb-4b9d-99da-e3f07e18556a.md) to integrate my standing non-code repos. (This ties into my wanting to get a job for my writing - I want to prune my not-that-great writing out of my GitHub profile.)

As I integrate and historicize so much of ths GitHub activity, I'm reflecting on [my general history of notes](da311588-e9d8-4a56-898f-63934bcc0131.md), and starting to broaden my horizons to incorporate older content.

There's also [mutation frenzy](03bf0054-bd27-4869-a60d-53de5ad2c2c5.md), a sprawl of stuff that originally lived in this section, over that note. Not sure what's redundant, what's banal... I think a trend I was going for was to describe "trends" in the notes in a general sense?

Trying to edit this section to explain broader things in motion in these notes gives me [metavertigo](3ef0ffc5-818e-4c16-be90-0a8bd6eb8778.md).

## Karaoke outreach

Went to Hula Hula on Tuesday: gotta move forward with [this idea](ac29634b-fa2e-49bb-864b-62704bcf365d.md).

## Pearls of Discord

The other big thing I'm working on when I'm not writing these notes is [this necklace](6dc617ce-7fc0-4c57-937e-2656af78f664.md).

I finshed it by the last week of June 2019, and have been wearing it around for a while: I've got thoughts on what my next steps with it should be, but haven't had a moment to tackle it.

## OctoPrint

In the process, I'm also getting back into [using OctoPrint](5bbc6d64-b33e-4eb4-8280-48509cbcc404.md)

There's some [3D Printer upgrade work](0b49c0ed-b327-4005-879e-59762d3af2b5.md) that went into this that I haven't uploaded (namely a revision to the Raspberry Pi spacer frame) - there's other stushiba-local stuff that I don't think is on GitHub at the moment to address there at some point, too.

## Firefox

Another big thing with me lately is that I'm [moving to Firefox](7b0f829a-7fbe-4896-9b5d-8196e1bca2a4.md).

In the process, I'm finding myself needing to revisit [Tabalanche](1bba5664-3cd1-4f22-903b-fd35c6844ac0.md)'s codebase for porting, and NilPass as well (the UI is bigger due to not having the font size reset, not sure if I documented this in Tabalanche or NilPass in issues).

Also a reminder here that I pledged to upload a fix for the storage removal thing.

I'm familiarizing myself with [WebExtensions](34349df2-97b4-4095-8df4-d37056211e46.md)

## Project Hoard 2K19

I'm overhauling my meatspace organization system to be based in these notes. See [here](7b3283fd-ba8a-4fd9-a496-f4f50d31dba3.md) for a waypoint in that.

## A thing I was thinking it'd be appropriate to write about

I had a thing happen recently that I ought to write a page for, about what to do when "feeling cute" becomes "might delete later" long enough to enter Google search history

if I don't get around to it, you can just throw this as a stub into News for mid-June 2019.

## Getting back to Abe

Now that I'm 3D printing again, I can probably get back to printing the case for Abe. Do I need to be so fussy about the anti-static plastic? Can that only be the part for the motherboard? Does it also have to touch the ground underneath it to be safe?

Anyway, in the abstract, I'll be looking to do a "Quadration Primer" some time soon if I decide to get back into Quadration, just to re-familiarize myself.

I was thinking, 'is it possible to parallelize a round of modular squaring?" like, if it's just iterated shifted addition, it would seem like you could probably multi-core the additions

it's, if I'm not mistaken, n^2 complexity, so parallelizing it may actually be worth it

(isn't this just true of modular multiplication, though, which AFAIK is already pretty well-optimized? are there any special tricks we can exploit by having both multiplicands being the same number?)

this might just be an optimization that FPGAs can make

Gotta remember that there's a [Quadration Quest Arc page](0d93d812-6739-4142-9e16-d686e6df00ef.md)

## big picture

I'm still getting married

## A closing thought

As this page is meant to be the "Lenses and Tab Groups" or whatever of these notes (and things I may want to put in these notes):

If Wayside has a method to have template workspace layouts, every editor layout for these notes would start with the editor and preview for The Root Note, and have the editor for Loose Notes, then this page (which, if you want the preview for, you can click through from the Root Note's preview to open it, in a new tab on Theia). Placing ll the rest can be worked out between the first two (and session tracking can work through the third), but it's nice to have Loose Notes there in an emergency (one layer above Google Keep or something).

I think that covers the Great Trifecta: what's Near, what's Far, and what's Around

## foot starts here

Anyway, that's the stuff that I've "got open" right now. Pages covering a broader span of things in my life can be found in the root note, or in [this recap of the first category in slightly more detail](1143ab9b-1442-45da-a800-2a905178e624.md) that used to be the content of this page (inbound links complaining about the redundancy were probably complaining about that, and should be worked out of the tree - specifically, the Right Near Quarters or whatever the Department of Barfspace division for this kind of process should start absorbing some of this meta stuff).

## circled-off section labeled "DO NOT ERASE"

This page ought to be treated as an incubator for content, not as a fixed location to describe any particular thing happening right now.

If a certain ongoing concern has its descriptions laid out best here, they should be split off to a new page, woven into the appropriate channels elsewhere in the Notes, and kept here so long as it is present and relevant (and reevaluated on that criteria regularly, honestly, and without judgment for letting it slip into the rest of the notes)

If a previous state of affairs is worth tracking for historical purposes, please weave it into an oral narrative or at the very least the miscellaneous News page, and move it appropriately (ie. as a linked artifact in said narrative.)

## feel free to link this off and home it someplace under Messays

Remember: the ink hasn't dried on history. What could have been the situation at one point in the past can quickly become the current situation all over again - the trick is to recognize how to separate the abstract states from the specific instances. (This is a very Meditations, Mutations, Metaquiddity type line)

Also, while we're on the subject of historical relevance, this page is basically serving the same role now as Quests did when it was first created: that its role in the notes shifted and is currently kind of fading out is natural, expected, and honestly kind of how I was expecting it all to work when I was originally making it: I knew just writing the stuff down (liknt to Just Writing? I know I've got a page with that name, not sure what it was about) would be enough to plant the seeds for a bunch more stuff that would be more useful, and the fact that some of it switches to the second-person as an artifact of the diaspora is just *exactly* the kind of messiness these notes were designed to accomodate.

## if I'm being honest

I think I had the idea to split items off to separate documents, maybe by UUID even, when I originally did stuartpb.plan, but I thought it was too ambitious and ostentatious (and I might have been spooked at the prospect of making a hierarchy - this split off into the Right Now for These Notes page exploring the nature of newer hierarchies in index pages that's emerging, with Taverns and all)

Another impetus to split pages: GitPod might really struggle saving big buffers (and other implementations could too)?
