# Camp Papalima

a little Operation Trapper Keeper squad outpost for merging

## pre-merger

- petlogs' structure is being rewritten by pasting link lists into README.md files, as well as the metadata YAML as fenced code blocks in their sibling README files.
- the current README file, as well as the list for the layout of pages under the machines/ tree (the legacies/ tree was kind of a namespace hack, they've been merged into lists in their respective machine-tree-readme-roots), are going to be orphan-roots linked from the README (which will just list those two links)
- I think I'm going to go ahead and link references to in-repo ".md" files to the notes they're in reference to in a commit now

## merge plan

Both pages from the old petlogs will be added as links on the root page for petlogs, and the "changes" to README.md will be discarded.

(2019-06-08 YOU ARE HERE)

This plan is moving into the original repo's machine-list node. A node specifically talking about the old directory structure as An Old Bad Idea (or at last An Old Idea) can be conjured later (see below).

## post-merger shuffling to integrate

- The old petlogs bagtent page from before the merger will remain the root for petlogs (though it might get put directly onto the root node, instead of linking through the papercuts page, now that it's the real deal - the general-papercuts page can be a subpage of petlogs).
- The old README itself will probably be split up into a bunch of nodes that are more and less relevant today (ie. the stuff describing the directory structure vs. the idea of tracking mutable state), and each whose relevance can change over time (ie Style Guide may have a comeback, spec philosophy like "why there's no use in titling journal entries in filenames" probably less so)
- The three machine roots here can take the form of whatever stray hair is in them right now the most prominently.
  - If they're not documenting anything in the node itself, I can run with "the functional role of the system they describe, in the abstract" pages. I feel like that's a nice thing to have talking about pet systems, and that's how inbound links to these from other pages kind of treat them (ie. "I'm recovering via stuquart" could explain what a "stuquart-like" system is, and why you'd want one).

## thoughts

it's amazing how often "invent a new YAML spec with each document and no specific use case in mind" turns into a clusterfuck of [My Old Bad Ideas][], where the data is almost all irrelevant - and how that metadata is... still pretty attainable, slicing *as relevant*, in a neural bagtent structure

[My Old Bad Ideas]: f3f3d6ba-6342-415a-9f3b-ab4f1d75a692.md
