# Possible applications for NeckFX

## OneBusAway Tracker

If they've got an API these days.

## Thought for phone connection

Once it associates to a network, it can display the IP it's been assigned on a series of pearls, with 3 or 4 bits per pearl (Red, Green, Blue, and maybe another Green)

Maybe the bitwidth can be configured when setting it to jump to a network: colorblind users may only be able to handle 2 bits per light (like white, black, orange, blue)

## Spooky Eyes!

OMG, imagine a mode that picks LEDs that are, say, rand(2,5) apart, and fades them in at them the same color, only for them to fade away. *Spooky!*

Easter egg: Three-eyed monsters

More ideas:

- This could be made less spooky, more cartoony, if it's always two right-next-to-each-other beads.
- Have the eyes "blink" by having the top of the LED dim, then the bottom one (or vice-versa if they blink upside-down)
- You can have eyes blink slightly out of sync to make the creature more "derpy"
- Of course you can also have them just blink on-off without fancy half-bead stuff
- Another half-bead effect you can do is to make eyes "roll"
- Have the same set of eyes move to a few different places before going away (eyes blink/fade)
- Personalities to the eyes! Maybe a special default shipping set
- Emulate a whole a zoo / ecosystem of random creatures!
- You could have a "do not intersect" logic, and it could be halves-only for a pair of bat-eyes, pr it could be optional for a "ghost" who can traverse boundaries
- Certain creatures could have eyes that change color, or even cycle color!

## Searchlights

You could have a sort of ray-tracer simulation where a light "sweeps" from being dim across a few beads to bright across another, or something like that.

The thing I was thinking was the flashlights in Muppetvision, but you could also do it for a 20th Century Fox type thing where they're fixed spotlights in sweeping arcs

## Disney parks

OMG, can you imagine this as a Disney project? Color-theming the necklace for every ride - and *different parts* of the ride? And, holy cow, imagine having it (somehow) *synchronize with events* :star_eyes:
