# Data Smuggler's Cove

The Internet is a Big Blob of Data, or at least, it *has* one. You can call it "The Great Big Distributed Internet Data Mass" (kind of like The Great Pacific Ocean Plastic Garbage Mass or whatever).

I like that idea/term to describe "basically all reachable fixed data", like "Plain Old Telephone Service".

Data is incredibly fungible, it's incredible that people don't realize how arbitrarily emergent data can be. There are more interesting ways we can structure it than the ways we do now.

Also, decentralization and content indexing have the potential to be truly disruptive, you know, like that new internet idea that was the basis for the most recent season of Silicon Valley

This is about anti-censorship and freedom of information and also just making ops a lot less mandatory for publishing, you know?

## ideas that live around this conceptual node

- [wacky ideas for ways to encode data](faaed29e-c3d1-4202-8bc7-d058e96af1cd.md)
- [alphabinary note nexus](a92da7dd-0bba-44ba-8e5a-743571caab3e.md)
  - [The more-complex successor idea](05ec49f4-5955-4876-82d2-9dd77d36c6c5.md)

## notes on discovering existing technology to facilitate this kind of stuff

here are some [Journals](9403033b-a238-47d1-865b-4e1baa0f2577.md) on my distributed data etc. studies:

- [IPFS](24079268-feb1-43bd-93ae-daff3da9062e.md)
- [Dat](435af1fd-1d1c-42b6-a591-bfa12141c031.md)

## historical detail

(this should probably get moved into some Oral History thing around the how-i-roll's tomb history division or whatever)

There was a quest that kind of touched on a few things here (titled "wow, this is lazy"): this quest was excised, retitled, and shuffled around until it was moved and I think used as the basis for either one of the quests that are now accessible under [the Meta Note Plan Nexus][MNPN] or one of the piles of undealt-with trash that are currently in deep freeze around [Project Akira][Akira]. Anyway, its origins from here are pretty much a historical curiosity, at this point: it was never really about the subject matter explored here. Kind of weird I'm talking about it at all, really!

[MNPN]: eb1e81f8-5939-4f85-9930-418044018a75.md
[Akira]: dadfc5e5-cfb6-4f7d-88c0-bcd64b91feac.md
