# Community Cultivation

a [Lean Notes](f00c3d23-8848-4bb4-8d7a-d009f7344374.md) page on structuring emergent communities.

[Background image](https://trello-backgrounds.s3.amazonaws.com/51901b73c30c061842001c4b/2100x1500/7e7d0e5877e2922bb8b3272f39cdd9d0/navygarder.jpg)

## Previous

[Manual Components](9c8f034f-bc4a-46d9-9d32-6fecfc962e2a.md) describes working with humans as part of your project

[Acting in the Ecosystem](291a3608-b5f1-4a27-8161-7a20751c9ef3.md) describes interacting with *other* communities

## Overture

This talks about how humans can interact *within* your project

External Link: [Brick by Brick](http://www.communitybuildingguide.com/)

## Rules and Nature

### Avoid rules

Non-emergent rules imposing behavior on people, imposed and enforced by people, creates tension between people.

Emergent rules from an abstract design, that influence people's behavior, don't create tension and uncertainty.

### Avoid problems

When you find people doing something that's a problem for you, look into making it not a problem before considering how you can stop people from doing it.

### Links to more

[Coding Horror: Training Your Users](http://blog.codinghorror.com/training-your-users/)

[Booming and Quarantine](e43be48c-aa1d-4457-ac41-9ff52791454c.md)

## Seeding

Start small: when your success depends on having a good community, make sure that the people who are first in your community are a smaller version of what you'd like your community to grow into.

Don't worry about your small stuff not making sense if you get bigger. See this essay by Paul Graham: [Do Things that Don't Scale](http://paulgraham.com/ds.html)

## Curation and Freedom

Pick your limits: every site is legally going to be obligated to control its content to some extent. You need to choose up front how much you're going to control.

## Other related places in these notes

- [The Spiral Mountain of Design and Social Psychology](458f8a16-f237-4f8e-8e17-474408732536.md) collects thoughts on how people work

## Read on

[Spread Strategy](8e12814c-43bf-4485-bee4-81b2c0071da0.md)
