# An Ad for Stuart

*Part of [the whole proto-Unusual-Studio consultancy project][job].*

[job]: 739a91f4-cafa-414a-80ea-fefa66acd95b.md

Whether it's an app, a website, a plastic widget, or just a little issue with your computer that you'd like to see fixed, if you've ever had something you wanted to make for yourself, but wouldn't know where to begin, I'd like to help you with it.

Over the course of the past decade, I've worked on literally hundreds of projects, ranging from browser extensions to mobile apps, from websites to algorithms, from posters documenting parliamentary procedure to customized hinges for virtual-reality headsets. (You can see a list of these projects, and a bunch of other ideas I've explored, at https://unusual.studio/projects/) I have accumulated a broad and diverse range of skills, and I want to make them available to solve problems for as many people as possible. (I'd do it for free, but I also want to be able to pay my rent.)

When a client reaches out to me with an idea of what it is they're looking for, I schedule a 90-minute consultation for $100 where we talk about what you've got in mind, how we might approach building it, how it might be streamlined to get something viable and useful more quickly (also known as "[Muntzing][]"). That 90 minutes is open-ended, to the client's wishes: schedule permitting, I'm happy to let the initial consultation take as long as is necessary for the client to feel like we've got a satisfactory idea of what we'll be building.

[Muntzing]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muntzing

And if it doesn't work out - we talk it over, and we decide that what you're looking for isn't something I feel comfortable making, or that, on further inspection, the thing that you're looking for already more or less exists, and you can just use that instead, it's cool - sometimes, we find stuff in this consultation that ends up being all it took to satisfy a client's needs (which is why I do have the condition that this initial consulation is non-refundable).

From there, we'll continue together in $100/hour sessions (though this rate can vary, per the client's needs and means). I'm not like most contractors or consultants: to me, there's no way to build anything lasting than to teach, and vice versa. I don't just want to make things for you: I want to help you make them yourself. I could brand myself as a "tutor", but in my experience, most tutors merely want to teach to some kind of academic test, usually one that doesn't really impart any practical basics.

Unlike most academic curricula, my technique is far from one-size-fits-all. I want people to get specifically the help they need to solve their most immediate, pressing questions, tailored to their specific ideas, rather than trying to fit them into a boilerplate template / framework. I never settle for just cobbling things together using the things I already know: if there's a simpler, smarter way to do it that I haven't learned yet, I'll learn it, because that's what ends up paying off in the long run.

Lots of tutors will tell you that they'll train you in "the latest and greatest technology". In practice, I've found the latest technology is rarely the greatest. While I'm able to work in cutting-edge domains like 3D printing, virtual reality, and real-time peer-to-peer high-definition video streaming, I'm also perfectly comfortable solving problems with something as simple as a piece of paper, which often does a better job anyway. In general, the tech I teach is grounded in practices that have been state of the art for decades, and will likely remain so for decades to come.

One thing that I'll refuse up front: I don't do cryptocurrency. Blockchain technology is like a roller-coaster: it has its ups and downs, you hear a lot of screaming about them, and there's a lot of interesting engineering involved, but, ultimately, it's a lot of energy wasted on a machine that doesn't go anywhere.

On location: I'm willing to travel anywhere that's reachable by a hour-or-less bus ride from my apartment near the Space Needle (which covers most of Seattle and the Eastside - I've been known to go as far as Duvall, but that costs extra). I'm also willing to meet remotely, if that's what works better for clients, though I only use browser-based WebRTC apps like http://appear.in  for this (ie. nothing that requires a desktop installation like Skype or Zoom).
