# Trello History of Lean Notes, Part IV: The Part Where It Gets Called "Lean Notes"

## Journal 20: Skipping A Few Numbers (2014-10-13)

The journals now match their card numbers so they can be referred to like #20.

Boards currently under consideration:

- There should be a board for "getting feedback" that includes surveys and what not, even though I personally don't do that much if ever. It can also refer back to Acting in the Ecosystem, which I trust hella more.
- Realizing I'd been splitting SEO advice across two boards that aren't Being Searchable, I should have a "Bad Things You Shouldn't Do" board that mentions stuff like SEO and hiring an outsourcing firm to build your site (building on the "glasstub.es for MBAs" I mentioned in Journal 15).

## Journal 21: [Sugarcoated] and Not Hutpass (2014-12-31)

So I've come to the realization that Hutpass can't really be made from the stuff I'm writing about here since this writing is just about the right level for this. (I think I elaborated about this somewhere in the Hutpass boards.)

I'm teaching some of this stuff to [Sugarcoated], and I'm also popping on and off about things I read from Hacker News.

I'm getting Plushu ready, the official RethinkDB Docker images, and am going to make a Template board with a link to the Overview in the top-left corner (which I will then copy to each board).

Codeless Solutions offically imbalances my nice three lists, originally going from Introduction to Enter the Web, Writing for Browsers to Being Searchable, and Observation and Measurement to Beyond glasstub.es - I'm now adding a list on each side.

It's also a nice meta-roundup, one I've been meaning to start for a while now. The creation of this board is accompanied by me using more codified techniques to create a new board.

## Journal 22: glasstub.es Is Now Lean Notes (2015-03-14)

So, .es domains have a *lot* of restrictions that were abstracted away when I originally registered the domain, but in mid-February, one of these quirks reared its head when I failed to renew the domain before the date *two weeks before expiration*, which, for some weird reason, is the last day to *renew* a .es domain.

Anyway, I let it lapse, and on reregistering, I was prompted for my Spanish ID Number and all sorts of nationalistic headaches I wasn't in the mood for, so I went and looked for a new name.

I knew I wanted some adjective + "notes" to better reflect how the project had developed. After a lot of fishing and some false starts (at one point the project was going to be called "min vial"), I found (via a panabee for "sleek notes") that leannotes.com was available. Since these notes kind of touch against the "Lean Startup" world, I figured that would be a pretty dang good name.

## Journal 23: The Cleanup (2015-03-17)

I'm going through and replacing all the instances of the old name with the new one (Lean Notes).

I'm also realizing each card needs to stand alone, so I'm going to rewrite the cards in "Read On" that go purple-yellow-purple

Another style guide: now that I'm embracing the idea that these are just my notes, I'm going to start using less "we" and "(name of the project) recommends"-type constructions where what I really mean is "I".

## Journal 24: Nodeschool, huttj, and The User Is A Feature (2015-05-26)

*(never filled in, card description empty)*
