# bagtent convention and style thoughts

pruned off from [the original bagtent ramble][mound], some threads may be shared from there

[mound]: 9432d8de-485e-4253-8dcb-e8ed3dda45f9.md

## The stuff on this page is obsolete

It should go it a page describing the old behavior for historical purposes

the new best practice, after months of heavy use, has turned out to be simply [Inlining links](a4e46084-4a99-4eee-a40a-794ddcdbf1d8.md)

that said, this will probably be done by moving the content below and keeping this as the "best practices" node

## Postmortem: why did footlinks make sense?

I think I wanted to be able to search "Link names" as a class to find pages (so I wouldn't get results from body content), and I wanted to make it possible to not search "link text" for when the text of the link had nothing to do with the page's "name", and unifying link searches to "lines specifying link targets" seemed like a solid way to enforce that.

In practice, this never really ended up being an issue: if you grep for text in square braces, you'll pretty much get what you're looking for. (And you can make it "only check inline with parentheses and start of lines followed by colons" if you really want to force that search - bottom line, it turns out inline links are the right form factor 99% of the time.)

Anyway, most of the time I've ended up being able to find a page by its first-level heading, so "search outbound links" was kind of a gratuitous concern. (Though it might not be in other Bagtent applications! But the headaches I ran into trying to use them would still be likely, enough to not make that a commonly-prioritized Bagtent pattern.)

## bagtent markdown style stuff

link names should be treated as more or less portable between documents, which is to say that there shouldn't be any words that are used consistently to refer to different documents in different contexts (like `[back]:` pointing to the "previous page", for some kind of sick cheap templating scheme). Doing stuff like that screws with the tooling heuristics, not to mention it makes it harder to move content around.

the one exception to this is links by number, which have all kinds of special handling in the tooling

## also

this has a few references lingering around in other notes before I had a certain place to put them, but footnotes should live close to their point of usage, because it makes trucking content across files easier. It also leaves fewer dead references that have no links in the body hiding in the gaps.

## in fact

I just wrote the Table of Contents for [Understanding Lua][], and I didn't even bother coming up with footnames for most of them - I just used inline links, since most of them were one-time and the name level of redirection didn't really help readability.

[Understanding Lua]: ea6e4e03-acb8-46ea-9024-4333e363ee60.html
