# The Principle of Least Headache

This is my take on implicit versus explicit behavior in interfaces, specs, etc.

Everything should have a sensible operational state without having to say more, unless there's a real problem making assumptions (like, if you can't run without an API key)

Essentially, you should make your defaults as harmless as possible - ie. someone not specifying something isn't going to be more screwed than the person who took more time. They should be an equal amount of screwed, which is to say, very little - the default behavior is always the most reversible (within reason).

## the implicit case must be easy to move to explicit

for instance, I shouldn't have the detritus of an autogenerated name to clean up if I didn't specify a name initially - either the name can be changed seamlessly, or it's not used at all (ie. how Kubernetes has both Names and UUIDs)

## an example

the ChaosKube addon for Kubernetes, IIRC, is dry-run be default, because it's so destructive.

This kind of covers the limits of the principle being described here:

## legacy behavior

This also takes legacy behavior into account as a way people can get "screwed"

## this feels familiar

I guess this is the Principle of Least Harm, huh? (looks) Oh no sweet, that's something completely different

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege is... kind of like this?

## How I originally formulated this

Making implicit cases insecure is a mistake, unless it would be more insecure to force security.
