# fixing cluster dns

Well, the Dashboard still works.

jumping into the event log, `MountVolume.SetUp failed for volume "config-volume" : configmap "coredns" not found`, hmm

Editing the deployment to change `spec.template.spec.volumes[0].configMap.name`

Okay, so that's fixed, but it's noting that the ConfigMap doesn't have a key for NodeHosts...

Now looking at the event logs for the pod again, it says `MountVolume.SetUp failed for volume "config-volume" : configmap references non-existent config key: NodeHosts`, which is... accurate?? From everything I can tell, this bug is present [in the upstream version](https://github.com/rancher/k3s/blob/03bb1b9770457ccb66f95102095be6b9520bdede/manifests/coredns.yaml)

I *almost* feel like this is supposed to get hacked by some k3s thing... (searches code) [oh son of a bitch](https://github.com/rancher/k3s/blob/16da9edf45c58080097d5208b9d9e09013cd6fe6/pkg/node/controller.go)

tcsh, so, instead of maintaining each concern as a separate document, you know, the *one decisive strength* of Kubernetes, k3s just... manually hacks the configMap for the coredns service, which it assumes is present. wow. gotta admit, this is pretty much par for the course from what I've seen from k3s so far

oh, wait, that means, if CoreDNS is disabled, this function becomes *completely unusable*, because the system will now *delete the ConfigMap it would search for at startup*. Amazing

And I'm like "wait, I could still work around it by specifying the coredns ConfigMap in a different set of manifests, right?" Nope! It's gonna delete that config map *just because it's named in the coredns manifest* which will get clobbered on every update. Seriously, this is just tremendous

oh my god, here we go. [this comment from over a year ago, when this still-unsolved issue was first reported](https://github.com/rancher/k3s/issues/462#issuecomment-491180796), points out that, due to the way k3s handles disabling deletions, they are read from the manifest filenames **in lexical order**, so you *can* undelete the CoreDNS ConfigMap, if you *define it in a manifest with a filename that comes after `coredns`*. Just... breathtaking.

so, you know what? fuck it, that's exactly what I'm going to do.

I just went ahead and put everything into `stubernetes-setup` and pushed - also copying them to the server by doing `sudo vi <filename>`, running `:%d`, then pasting into the terminal and saving

rebooting

okay now everything's green again
