# The Quests in the Quotes

Here's a quest I couldn't understand until I took the long block I wrote earlier and split it into several points.

Basically, it's a brainwave about what the "natural titles" of Bagtent imply in their cultural context. It's a complex concept, with conjectural contours.

This should get merged into the Meta stuff, especially [How I'm Writing With Bagtent][].

[How I'm Writing With Bagtent]: 13ceb37e-99d5-417b-be3c-ec7e1bc537ac.md

> Where'd I write that whole thing about Googlability?

- [ ] Describe the implications of a UUID being unambiguous about its significance, as opposed to words which could possibly constitute a distinct statment, but we frequently miss this formation, hence our modern social Eureka: "wait, that's a thing?"
  - This also veers close to the vortex of [Metaquiddity][] to describe further.

[Metaquiddity]: 3ef0ffc5-818e-4c16-be90-0a8bd6eb8778.md

> Anyway, I like the idea of the UUID of that explainer document just like straight-up being "here's the UUID of Stuart's page defining Barfspace, anyone else making a page for it is just riffing off of that,

- [ ] Describe the implications of conjuring a new UUID versus reusing one from outside.

Really, a page that's just, like, "Thoughts on UUIDs for Thoughts" would probably cover a lot of these items

Actually... I should do that, move this section to its own page, then replace this weird shit with... paragraphs exploring the idea dictated here to explore?

anyway the big question is where to put it, so for now it'll just live here until the next time I go down the Vision rabbit-hole

> and Stuart might have merged stuff in back,

- [ ] Describe how Bagtent / barfspace federates (ie. how UUIDs may be reused, borrowed, "stolen", etc).

> but if someone feels their definition / scope / sense / usage has significantly drifted from stuartpb's, they can give it its own UUID,

- [ ] Describe the need for introspection in conjuring, and reflecting on the nature of a page's content, descriptively and perscriptively across contexts.

> and maybe make a stub at the UUID of Stuart's version of the page that describes the divergence,

- [ ] Describe the need to communicate these conclusions when federating.

> because the idea is pages by vague concept that is really just defined by the content on the page and the position of that page relative by links to the pages of the rest of the tree

- [ ] Describe the need to distinguish between separate "cohesive" trees (ie. a symbol can't really reference an instance of that symbol in a foreign tree and trust that it'll keep the same significance, especially not if that symbol also exists within the tree?)
  - This isn't really related to that thought, just kind of also related since I didn't really go into the implications of outside trees when I was originally jotting all this down.

> the UUID is just an inherently unambiguous name to refer to a specific, at the broadest it'd be phenomena surrounding a given UUID, like what happened with 09f911

This should also be woven into the [Data Smuggler][] The-Great-Ephemeral-Namespace-of-Arbitrary-Key-Value-Mapping concept that doesn't really have a page yet.

[Data Smuggler]: 58d3072a-0670-4bc3-9db2-fca214ca725e.md
