# new gotk-oriented BASIC-prefixed repo style

this is a semi-design doc for how I'm gonna restructure stubernetes-system. it also describes the next steps, where I'd introduce a literate-program-processing layer to convert each file, so the "codebase" can be rendered into its own documentation, by having each "document" be primarily about explaining the code.

## the new repo layout

stubernetes-setup will become stubernetes-hack, as it now holds teardown scripts and runtime manifests

stubernetes-core is now just flat manifests, no Helm involved: it is a Kustomization

stubernetes-system is now a clear kustomization

all of these will switch to main instead of master

## namespace changes

what the heck, we'll rename the stubernetes-system namespace to gotk-system, that's honestly more accurate.

so, this is one of the things I like about the "BASIC" number-prefixed-naming technique (see below) - releases go in the gotk namespace, but the name of the directory more clearly doesn't strictly correspond to a "namespace", but a logical position like a "line". writing a large declarative file in a directory.

the namespace thus will be created as part of stubernetes-core, which also installs the core components of the operator, directly

## advanced new repo structure/style

actually, we're gonna take it BASIC-decimal-prefix enforced-asciibetical-order style! And files will only contain one document per file, and be suffixed with and dot and the kind before the ".yaml", so I don't have to worry about overlapping names for the same thing (ie. namespace and helmrelease). Anyway, the names are also distinguished by having different numbers for [page order](538ad1c0-d0d3-45ad-906d-6d3d8333c055.md), of course

## actually, never mind on the page order

I realized that kustomizations are normally specified explicitly to dictate order - and, in working with this, I realized the numeric prefixes make tab completion kind of a huge pain in the ass, since you have to remember the number (though, conversely, you only need to type two digits).

Anyway, I've decided to roll the numbering back, and maybe I'll consider it for another project - the git receiver thing?

## basic exclusion rule for common list (ie. patterns in .sourceignore)

thought about having an exclude rule for any filename with a letter at the beginning of it

you could also do underscore (ie. `_helpers.tplorwhatever.yaml` would be skipped in any location)? that's probably the better convention? put it into "templating artifact we should ignore" space?

i like the way this turns .gitignore and .sourceignore into successive stages of mask. neat

## Thought about merging in core (ultimately deciding not to)

now that I think about it... I might as well just... fold this into the core?

nah- what I'll do is, I'll space out my numbers a little more...

in fact, I'm wondering if I shouldn't maybe use three digits at my top level...

## passing up on the idea of sharing a numberspace

nah, I'll stick with two-digits, and keeping things in separate levels of repo

those, themselves, could be ordered in some decimal-prefixed form)

after all, you need the reference to this repo to bootstrap the "system" level that comes after "core"

## the angle of repo slitting I am considering, though

I'm thinking about if the bulk of this repo were pulled out to a more generic "stubernetes-proto", and instead of stubernetes-core bootstrapping stubernetes-proto directly, it'd bootstrap a cluster with my in-house "quirks", like could it do the node labeling?

but, like, also, "storberry", zone 403, these are so in-house-specific, I'd rather have a pattern that someone else could start from and tailor to their own system in a similarly basic patch pattern?

[flagday branching](6ee3ed0d-39b8-4d98-b11b-59c6be8448b9.md)

looking at stuff like https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/kustomize/api-reference/glossary/#kustomization-root though, I'm thinking more it should actually be layers of patches applied in subdirectories

ahhh... now I get why the ServiceClass and BlockPool are two different documents. You can make the Staging version use a different kind of BlockPool without having to touch the doc that defines the class at all

## another idea this overlaps neatly with

[Literate Kubernetes Deployment](e5279bab-da4a-49b9-91ef-514ec2934c05.md)

## a thought about factorization across the kustomization boundary

kustomizing the CephCluster to define your own device groups by whatever criteria you want is a cool level of abstraction, to the point that, like, you could get away with having the default look for all nodes that have devices matching the "big and little drive on a pi" pattern

that would at least address storberry. and you could follow a similar logic with the "internal" thing, just have the default assume the whole cluster is "internal", and the kustomize adds the bit that ties it to the zone to prep for that potential future

## important thing to see about gotk push stuff

what are the options for "git push this repo and have the cluster retrieve it"? and is there a way to have the git repo live on the machine itself? is that something I could make with the ideas from the Plushu toolkit?

## thought about auto-generated kustomization.yaml

That would make it so the repo can't be installed by kustomization normally? or does kustomization default to recursive?

## another thing I'm gonna change

I'm gonna have the helmreleases live in the same namespace as their stuff, as this looks like one of the major changes, that it watches all namespaces by default. and since HelmRepositories default to the release name and target namespace of the HelmRelease, this knocks out a few defaults I don't have to override

## something I think gotk should change

https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/kustomize/api-reference/glossary/#kustomization-root makes me think their type should be KustomizationRoot, so it doesn't have the same kind as `kustomization.yaml` files
