# Long Tail of Maker Project Ideas

## Better Than a Breadboard

You know, as cool as it is to be able to wear it like a morale patch and have the screen displaying stuff with the chip bare next to it, it'd be nice if you could use this breadboard for other stuff.

- [ ] Design a copper-tape-based socket-mount assembly to connect an ESP8266 to your ILI9225.

## A Little Jig

Well, drat. It turns out you can't just loop the copper tape around the pins.

- [x] Design an initial prototype for a copper-tape-based jig for flashing surface-mount chips.
- [ ] Figure out a way to make this jig capable of holding pins in contact.
  - [ ] Wait, couldn't you just put the tape by the outside, then wrap it a second time, so it's bound to the outside of the first layer?

## I Love Lamp

You know that bulb in a socket you've just had sitting in top of your shelves? Might want to do something with that. What you've got right now is probably a fire hazard.

- [ ] Print a test parallelogram prism to see if you've measured the dimensions of your shelving slots correctly.

## Conductivity

- [ ] Measure the conductivity of this conductive ABS filament.

## The IoT-to-Magic-Touch Interface Bridge Layer

- [ ] Invent an IC that will emulate a touch on a touch lamp.
  - (insert note links here)

## The Calling Card

- [ ] Model your hat.
- [ ] Try out that "Oscard" action figure on a card.

### The Jackson Vive

You'd like to have a better system for keeping your Vive attached to your head, but you don't want to shell out the $100 for a Deluxe Audio Strap. Something $20 is more your speed, and you've already bought all the parts for it.

- [x] Design a new model for the headgear in OpenSCAD.
- [x] Add supports under the tabs and print a unified piece for the bracket in PETG.
- [x] Commit and push the latest design for headphone arms.
- [ ] Continue refining the headphone arm design for PETG.

### A Good Roll of Tape When You Need It

Not only this roll of double-stick tape on your desk, but copper tape, too!

- [x] Design a tape holder in OpenSCAD.
- [x] Print a first prototype of the design.
- [ ] Add a spacer to the inside for keeping the roll of tape away from the sides, so it can turn freely.
- [ ] Develop a cutting-edge system for cutting the tape.

### The Very First Thing

Oh, right! You've been so occupied by all this other print stuff that you forgot [the very first thing you wanted to 3D print][toothless-gsc]. Your original design was okay, but you can almost certainly do better today...

[toothless-gsc]: https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:13307

- [ ] Sketch out the design for a grid holder (maybe in Model Magic).

### A Spring Thing

You've got some ideas for parts that'd require springs. Maybe there's a way we can make them?

- [x] Print a spring spooler from https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:92266 in PETG.
- [ ] Print a version of the spooler with a hole for a servo motor axis.
- [ ] Get a servo motor working by button control (possibly with potentiometer for speed) using an ESP8266 or ESP32.

## Finding the Plot

You've got these cheap stepper motors: what better inaugural project to start these out with than trying to build a plotter on the ESP8266?

Completing this quest unlocks Big 2D Printing.

Completing this quest will open the door to unlocking Stencil and Vinyl Cutting, as well as potentially Laser Cutting.

- [ ] Look at existing 3D Plotter designs.

## Who Go Weaving?

You've got some ideas that could use fabric, but you're not one for sewing. Even something that can just make competent straps would be useful, but something that could print a rounded sheet would be incredible.

- [ ] Read more about 3D Weaving, specifically what's open-source and available.

## A Light in Your Belly

Your Steven Universe costume could be more... inventive.

- [ ] Complete the "A Little Jig" quest to make the ESP-12S programmable without soldering pins.
- [ ] Design a gem that hold two LR44s, an ESP-12S, and an LED.

Note: this would work better printed in resin

## Crank the Pump

It's a pain in the ass to take your hydration pouch out of your vest just to toss a glass of water in, not to mention looking conspicuous as hell. What'd be nice would be if you had some sort of mechanism, one you could swap out for the mouthpiece, to siphon water directly from a source and put it into your pouch (or vice versa)...

- [ ] Print https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:3063529 and see if you can figure out the assembly there.
- [ ] Model a hand-cranked 360-degree peristaltic pump in OpenSCAD.

## Hold the Caliper

**Complete!**

- [x] Print a holder for your caliper.
- [x] Stick the holder on some furniture and keep your caliper in it.

## OGEL

- [ ] Review the structure of [LEGO.scad][] to see what can be reused for more complex components.

[LEGO.scad]: https://github.com/cfinke/LEGO.scad

## Let's Give You a Big Hand

- [ ] Search for big articulated hands on Thingiverse.

## Making Spiff Sans a real font

Trying to learn Fontforge or sometinhg to make this happen.
