# original barfspace README node

The original "barfspace" project was a repository of works-in-progress and other not-ready-for-primetime writing that I do.

I had previously kept a few of them as uncomitted files in my workspace for [Meditations][], back before they were merged into [Lean Notes][] (not comitting them because I felt they weren't finished enough to publish), but eventually decided I'd rather maintain them in a perpetual work-in-progress repository.

From there, the barfspace project went through a few idological shifts and mutations, and was eventually reworked and combined with a bunch of pre-existing writings to amalgamate into notes.stuartpb.com.

The content that was originally within the "barfspace" repo is summarized a bit on [the current top-level "root note"][root] - the actual files can be traced through the Git history, but the lines on the *spirit* of barfspace have become rather blurry, and were never super well-defined in the first place. For more thoughts on what "barfspace" means, see [this page][name explainer], or the old abandoned [Visitor Center][].

[root]: 81cde66e-d238-4fc1-8381-648a3f90537d.md
[name explainer]: f5d72b81-ccb9-45d0-8029-be70895f65ca.md
[Visitor Center]: 434dd429-b16d-4924-996f-aaf2ebff29ef.md

## more mess around history

[This page][history] started as an attempt to summarize barfspace: it's currently something like the rough draft / talk page for this page, aggregating more loosely what could be explained more clearly here.

[history]: 0621dc44-9276-47ef-877b-56756163e04f.md

## a line on the notes that was more applicable in the earlier days of barfspace

Yeah, a lot of these are messy and could use an editor, or are woefully incomplete and in dire need of someone to help fill in the gaps (or at the very least take a stab at filling them in). If you think you'd like to do that, check out the [standing policy on contributions][contributions].

[Lean Notes]: f00c3d23-8848-4bb4-8d7a-d009f7344374.md
[Meditations]: 8f2359ae-186f-4878-b5e5-33f3c177e6fc.md
[contributions]: 5b5e1a92-bd30-4827-9196-48a9c07c165a.md

## a line on the notes that's more applicable now

Basically I came up with a notebook format that was easily publishable to the web, then slapped a domain name on it. The fact that these notes are public is, in general, an afterthought - it's less that there's anything to gain from making them public than that there's nothing to gain from not doing so (all it does is make it harder for me to share them, or refer to them in a pinch when I'm not signed in / haven't installed Evernote or Google Keep or Laverna or Penciltape or whatever the kids are using these days).
