# starting What's Wrong with Capitalism with what is wrong

[this visualization of income disparity](https://mkorostoff.github.io/1-pixel-wealth/) got me remembering how I wanted to kick the video off:

there's a Medium post by the guy who made CodeHS in 2016 that tackles some of this, too, that'd be an inspiration

anyway, this also merges into my Long Graph notes if I eveer pull those out from whatever

## script?

What's wrong with capitalism? Well, the "what's wrong" part is pretty easy to illustrate. You might have seen one of these graphs before:

(log graph of income disparity)

You see this, and you go "oh, income disparity is really bad", but the thing is, this graph's a little tricky, and it isn't to scale.

It's logarithmic (or whatever), where each level is another *digit*. On a scale like this, your height might be about this (1 unit?) high, and the Empire State building would be about this high (4 units? obviously you want to get the scale right).

And you'd see that, and you'd go "wow, the Empire State Building is really tall", because, wow look at that, it's like *four times* taller than you.

But the thing is, each level adds a digit. It's not four times as big as you: it's (going to a 1-digit "1" to a four-digit "1000") *a thousand* times bigger.

(draft note: I think it's probably closer to a hundred? obviously these figures would be spelled mathematically correctly in a final video)

## more on scale

(you could probably cut some of this, it's somewhat redundant with the part that comes before it)

(We zoom out from the "you" to the thousand-times-bigger building)

(line explaining that these zooms shrinking something while the other thing is the old size on screen are also dishonest)

## anyway

To scale: this person's height is you. Maybe the person's really rich, like a doctor, a wider square?

And here is the wealth of (person with fortune proportionate to the ESB relative to average)

And the thing is, here's Jeff Bezos.

## segueing into the core

you could have a big line that's "ALL THE MONEY IN THE WORLD"

you could also maybe save that for another iteration

anyway, you use this scale as a constant background for everything else in the video - while you're scrolling past, I don't know, some boring thing, you can be doing the "What's Capitalism?" bit

and you pan across it at a constant rate, with numbers on the line

you could maybe also have a counter on the bottom like 1-pixel-wealth but I think the numbers-on-the-line approach works better. Especially if you're imposing subdivisions, like the fortunes of individuals

one thing I'm thinking is that the rate of travel has to be constant and there's no zooming out

## Forbes 400

## a closing thought? when doing this illustration

When we talk about numbers this big, it's easy to space out like we're just mashing arbitrary figures together to make a point. Like if someone talked about putting all the plumbing in the world from end to end, and it'd reach from the Earth to the Moon and back - you can't *actually* lay all the world's plumbing from end to end. We're busy using it. And you can't hook my kitchen faucet up to a fire hose. It's not even clear how we're defining "plumbing" - is the Hoover Dam involved? etc.

But the thing is, *this value is not hypothetical*. Does this mean Jeff Bezos *physically posesses all this wealth*, in liquid assets, like he has one big Scrooge McDuck vault full of gold in his mansion? Of course not. This is just a valuation of all his holdings, and those valuations could change at any time.

Make no mistake, these numbers *are* bullshit. For (years?), Donald Trump was included on this list, which had him at (dollars). But the truth is - even now - Donald Trump justt isn't that wealthy. Most estimates put him here (show imposed on something that fits on screen?) Donald Trump faked his way onto the Forbes 400 by claiming to be "John Barron" and just telling Forbes he was richer than he was, and they let him! They figured nobody that high-profile would personally pull a Ferris Bueller's Day Off to make up a fortune greater than (the GDP of Luxembourg or whatever).

There's kind of no honest way to quantify these absurdly vast fortunes. They involve all kinds of hypothetical trade agreements like futures that are on the books, but, like the web of alliances that led to World War I, start to fall apart if one of the pieces can't feasibly collect. (massage this)

But that's the point. Under capitalism, this bullshit *isn't hypothetical*. It doesn't matter how much money they actually have. Even if they may not *hold* half the money in the world, we let them treat us like if they did. Rupert Murdoch bought a third of the news in the English-speaking world. Jeff Bezos bought half the newspaper in the US. (this isn't great, mostly here to lead into this closer)

And Trump, the guy who just *flat-out lied* his way onto a list of mega-millionaires (for years?), because he was rich, and everyone figured it wasn't their place to check whether what he told them could turn out to be completely disconnected from material reality?

(we arrive with the frame back on "What's Wrong with Capitalism.", the question mark dimmed to just the dot) He's the fucking president.
