# The Root Note

Stuart P. Bentley's Notes are currently organized into a few loose kind of overarching contexts that are constantly shifting.

To read some notes that may suggest the nature of these shifts and contexts, you may visit the [Department of Barfspace](eb1e81f8-5939-4f85-9930-418044018a75.md), the official headquarters for notes on these notes.

## Plans and check-ins

- [Right Now](41218b84-cd08-48a5-b91a-865e8b90c46a.md), tracking Anything New, Exciting, or Different
- [Pet Machine Journals](1c1b77bb-9e37-4d0a-9dd2-5bafbeee15f5.md)
- [Projects](8509d6ba-3cdd-418a-82ea-94cc044b6aef.md)
  - [Method Lab](9a2890e2-a0fa-4484-9c1e-3c7c7ec4f28a.md)
- [Study Journals](9403033b-a238-47d1-865b-4e1baa0f2577.md)
  - [Data and Reference Sheets](3823093b-64d3-43f8-ab26-853d39123d90.md)

Also a couple older pages:

- [Quests](6f25cf97-8ee8-460e-9db8-3c241cadbff0.md), a loose set of "To-Do" lists that cross-cuts the notes
- [News](afcfaa78-ef7e-429e-a2ea-0b5c7abaf7b7.md), a catch-all space when I want to write about what's going on but don't know where to hang it
  - This is kind of a cross between an archive for Right Now content and an index/[tavern](d4d2fdbe-4cea-4de0-aa53-90646d3d5346.md) for aimless journal entries at the present moment in time

## Other facets of my life right now

- [Working for Money](8f63bba6-1b90-484d-a51c-1bc74fccd3d8.md)
- [Shopping lists](d14eeacb-1729-485a-9e76-9cceb484862f.md)
- [The Fresh Book of Bell Air](45fc3859-ce9b-4317-afd9-7d3f52dc5dd2.md)
- [The Left Side of the Notes](d601d7ba-522b-4d6d-9e3b-101885e7aa00.md)
- [Thoughts on our Spaceship Earth](00944f19-b4df-41e2-855d-542a46559f4f.md)
- [Wedding Plans](5a2f660d-e3c1-4b7a-848d-5147b44744e7.md)
- [Comedy Moleskine](95cc0bfb-0ae8-4bba-8bf0-1c76f0c8fe0e.md)

## Lean Notes

[Lean Notes](f00c3d23-8848-4bb4-8d7a-d009f7344374.md) is the term describing a big chunk of my notes that's dedicated to exploring and documenting how stuff can be put together.

A lot of its current content is in a bunch of Trello boards that haven't been copied here, and a lot of those Trello boards aren't even full of all that much content themselves.

[Everybody Gets a Factory](8cbd867d-1a63-4d1f-9c83-cab019fe87bd.md) is a more recently-worked-with body of notes on the general "maker" sphere.

My self-teaching [Study Journals](9403033b-a238-47d1-865b-4e1baa0f2577.md) are kind of a "raw feed" into the stuff that goes into these notes:

the [Method Lab](9a2890e2-a0fa-4484-9c1e-3c7c7ec4f28a.md), where experimental best practices are drafted, is like the other pole, where experience is thoroughly condensed into whole frameworks.

## Understanding Lua

This is kind of like Lean Notes, but instead, it's a draft for a graphic-novel-style introduction to key programming concepts through Lua.

Right now, it lives kind of outside of these notes: I've started an [Understanding Lua root][] for bringing it in from its current home.

[Understanding Lua root]: ea6e4e03-acb8-46ea-9024-4333e363ee60.md

## More freeform / creative-writing-type stuff

much of which dates back to the pre-bagtent era of [barfspace](7f9a66a0-38fc-49e0-8489-270cdd3036ee.md)

- [Messays](8f2359ae-186f-4878-b5e5-33f3c177e6fc.md) - a couple main strains under it are listed here:
  - [Big Titles](e0fc507e-e5ec-4771-93ee-9b4d5bda3606.md), a kind of incubator for messay clusters
  - [Raw emotional stuff](a281eee4-5e61-4026-846a-40fed7d38db9.md), a safe space for jotting down thoughts that are moody and personal
- [Silly shit](e1cae26c-3271-48ac-aa0c-a085fa4aa211.md), for shitposts
- [Pitches and Scripts](b297a6f8-5646-4ce1-9be1-d7ed6056a513.md), for story premises, character study, dialogue bits, things like that - this is really a kind of big subsection of the notes, really.

## Reactions

[The Tasteland][Tastes] is a branch of the notes where I'm keeping reviews and things like that

[Tastes]: 6661cd90-c9a6-4f7a-97cc-3eb47f9dee2e.md

## Link stashes

Here are some pages that just collect links to stuff so I don't forget it (and an [index page][metalinks] for linkdumps that aren't top-level like these).

- [Stuff I Have Read](2593b86b-8504-4c6e-af09-501c6a54ef67.md)
- [Links I Often Think Of](1337e279-9790-4c24-aeeb-56337c994726.md)
- [My Old Google Bookmarks](878e8967-fa5d-423d-8ac0-b369138ae10f.md)
- [Finds from Hacker News](93c07255-53aa-4f1c-aa32-ac48149b9683.md)
- [Other Trees of Notes Like These](33adc43b-8996-4449-87d0-134c91c691e5.md)

[metalinks]: 0f18ba9f-dc5f-4b1a-a5da-50d09ce3e9d3.md

## Miscellanea

Here's the long tail of where notes that don't easily fit in any of the cleaner buckets above fall:

- [The Rest][]: for when I really, really, really don't want to classify something as any of the above
  - [Weird Stubs](231786d3-4a9b-4451-9df1-e2049b90b0fe.md), for other pages needing more love
- [Taverns and Commissaries](d4d2fdbe-4cea-4de0-aa53-90646d3d5346.md), an index of pages where loose pages gather
- [Appendices][], an index for pages designed to collect things that probably won't become notes
- [Loose Notes][]: The Last Appendix, for ideas that don't even warrant their own page, and don't already have a suitable appendix page I can figure out right when I need to start writing them. I can tear them off and give them pages (possibly sorted, even) or move them to an Appendix later.

[Appendices]: f161276f-fd3c-49bb-93b1-3e99aab9e266.md
[The Rest]: fd071a93-8373-4adc-84c6-ae781c7d0442.md
[Loose Notes]: ff47c3c8-6686-4225-ba27-23f61c604e0d.md
