# Breadth-First Hyperactivity Disorder

A thing I've been thinking about / noticing lately is how I'm set back by what my mom described as "Sherlock's Violin Disorder", where the problems I have are like how Sherlock Holmes was always a terrible violinist: when there's something I'm not inherently good at, I inherently put it down to pursue something I *am* good at.

I don't know if that's Breadth-First, truly? It's more like a probing algorithm.

Anyway, it's funny, because I've been thinking about how this tendency manifested when I was playing Hollow Knight: I'd end up in weird places because I'd have backtracked and explored every cranny I could without doing difficult things. For instance, I hadn't faced off against the Mantis Lords because it seemed like "I want to be stronger first", so I went through a *lot* of the game without unlocking Deepnest - specifically, trying to get all the maps, because not having maps is a major issue for me in these games, not being able to track my exploratory process.

The way I mine in Minecraft has a similar funny tendency to it: I expand in any direction I find the most unusual blocks, then gradually drift at random as I don't find anything.

These feed into what I'm thinking about as I try to find work (mid-2019, and for years prior): if I couldn't make one thing work, I'd start to see it as more trouble than it's worth, and start pursuing a different strategy. This has left me drifting *close to but not into* a whole bunch of potentially-lucrative endeavors without ever actually geting to a point where they make *money*.

How this situation will change with me... seems to be a function of having Tiare in my life, really. That's, I think, how I can sum up why 2018 made sense? I don't know.
