# Markdown Macros

This is a thing I've been thinking about for my notes.

Use case: say I have a page like the [June Judgment](b7b835c5-d843-4888-ae53-bd8aef36d5cd.md), where there's a pattern like "second-level heading that's a link to the heading name under my username on GitHub". It'd be cool to have a page-local idiom to encapsulate that.

At the same time, Liquid tags are gross. Like, that's not what I want: I just want a really simple template system that doesn't have modules or logic or anything like that.

And in the spirit of Markdown, I want something that's not too "codey"

can it maybe use a C / Bash hybrid syntax of `name(args)=` at the start of the line, which is invoked like `$name{}`

Recursion?

I was really planning to debate the merits of having this in the files themselves (ie. in the compilation process) instead of solving this class of problem as an editor feature (I guess that's what emmet macros are?)

and that'd kind of get into [The Tree Structure of This Repo](b651b62a-9906-4a3d-943b-93d19e4153d7.md), and all the [Engineering Core](30ec2e6e-47d0-496a-a523-0732b35aea8a.md) and [Bagtent Gang](ba00b8cb-9d05-4aef-bd50-0990f82dd723.md) drafting that'd have to be considered...

maybe as an engineering decison made primarily under local-machine (or single cloud-workspace) jurisdiction, journalled under petlogs or whatever, at the editor level - but for now, it's too much of a headache to consider integrating into the rendering core. (Environmental regulations, don'cha know.)

(And that's why the June Judgment stops listing GitHub links in the heading after like three items: I got tired of copying URLs.)
