# Learning Journeys

Notes I make as I explore various technologies.

Kind of dovetails with [Lean Notes][], in a way, though Lean Notes tends to slice by aspect, and this tends to slice by technology (though I expect those lines to blur going forward).

[Lean Notes]: f00c3d23-8848-4bb4-8d7a-d009f7344374.md

[Data and Reference Sheets](3823093b-64d3-43f8-ab26-853d39123d90.md) tracks various pieces of information that I've collected (or found).

## Expeditions

- [Nix](945eed3f-350f-4460-95b7-a96ca5e5cd6d.md)
- [Kubernetes](f7ab56ca-06db-4c96-808f-4d0b0ee47819.md)
- [Rust and WASM](a0efb9a5-5ec8-4ced-8c1b-6b6a338277ce.md)
- Distributed data stuff (a la [Smuggler's Cove](58d3072a-0670-4bc3-9db2-fca214ca725e.md))
  - [IPFS](24079268-feb1-43bd-93ae-daff3da9062e.md)
  - [Dat](435af1fd-1d1c-42b6-a591-bfa12141c031.md)
- [Photogrammetry](706a83cf-d2e9-43eb-8e02-dfccf4feddf8.md)
- [Plus Codes](d6275afb-9e9f-47a3-9a8a-338ddf870ccd.md)
- [WebExtensions](34349df2-97b4-4095-8df4-d37056211e46.md)
- [Game engine design](51ac772b-2ac7-4f9e-a836-0d6460b132d2.md)
  - [Many Ways to Do Common Things in 3D](5f910a50-494d-47a1-afce-0845d0d9c1a1.md)
- [HTML Email](d30a8fbd-034e-4292-acdc-60218cc19e7e.md)

## Synthetic Note Topics

the old "repackage greatest hits with the same theme as a clip show" routine (TODO: document this with the Academy):

- [Let's Encrypt nexus](4ea48809-1a9d-42b6-aebc-22902d831c24.md) explores notes that touch on Let's Encrypt

## Not software, but

- [Notes as I read about world history](9e5cecef-00f7-48af-87f1-e68b0b3f3463.md)

## Aside about making

[Everybody Gets a Factory][EGAF] is a similar cluster around discovering various technologies around personal manufacturing, sort of like a second draft around the blunt block-of-marble notes I initally take here.

[EGAF]: 8cbd867d-1a63-4d1f-9c83-cab019fe87bd.md

[Adventures in 3D Printing][3dp] is the general nexus for 3d-printing-related learning. Pages in the list below should be worked into that one (even if they're part of EGAF, probably, since the nature of that page is to be a more table-of-contents-y overview than EGAF's full narrative choose-your-own-adventure-y structure.)

- [Mesh cleanup](99b38a2c-5b55-4fef-9a22-fae1c5f474cb.md)

[3dp]: a3e30d39-0949-4226-87ec-aa5d1b775b05.md

## Topics from the above

(TBH, these should get split into separate pages)

- [Basic electronics shit](2394de4f-4095-4cfc-9891-cb485d9edbcb.md)
- [NFC](a38e9fe8-7f61-46ee-96d2-d59926476f9d.md)
- [NodeMCU chips (ie. ESP8266/ESP32)](be8ef21f-ea6e-4f96-8b87-9a54694fb29f.md)
- [Raspberry Pi](7a60aa26-7747-4ffe-9c45-d962d0e88ac4.md)
- [Balena / IoT containerization](2d27ffc1-8ed1-4623-9c41-10b2608637d8.md)
- [WebSocket-to-Serial Tunnels](d0d9c829-a69a-49ea-a9cb-eedcb34cab21.md)
- [FPGAs](ed5003ec-8907-4ef2-9e7f-89c7f4829044.md)

## Tours?

not exactly an Expedition, but it occupies an adjacent headspace

- [Object-Oriented Programming](ae6b4e9f-4b19-4734-89cd-b3899ad05f6d.md)

Maybe this should go to The Tasteland, or Rants? (Or, hell, both?)

## Possible ways for this page to evolve

It might make sense to have this devolve into a page linking off to more subject-oriented pages, where I have a "Journals-like section" for pages where Log links and understandings Journals-style. (There can also be an Academy-of-Barfspace-owned page exploring the Journals structure, like the one exploring Quests.)
