# tomorrowland-dream-away

A script for the second half of Tomorrowland that delivers on the promise of the first half.

See [this thread on Twitter](https://twitter.com/stuartpb/status/857042678273396736) for a taste of my thinking on this.

## Part for part

### The opening

People have dumped on the prologue of Tomorrowland, but I actually kind of liked it. I'd compare it to one of my favorite openings, George Carlin's description of the future as Rufus in Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. "The future is great... but it almost wasn't."

### okay so anyway

one thing that I think would have been better would have had it been so that instead of Tomorrowland being some kind of bullshit Galt's Gulch, Tomorrowland is just exactly what the concept suggests: it's an abstract vision of the future derived from the collective views of society about what they can accomplish. It's manifest through a kind of waveform "force", extrapolating material trends in such a way that you can actually travel to and from it.

and Clooney's folly was, after discovering Tomorrowland, he figured, "if Earth has a Tomorrowland, why can't Tomorrowland have a Tomorrowland?"

so he made a device that, like, could only view, but it squared the form that derived Tomorrowland, and in the 90s, he showed all of Tomorrowland what the future would look like... in the future.

and it crushed them. Tomorrowland itself started falling apart: everything became self-fulfilling prophecy.

Point is, if you spend today thinking about tomorrow as an inevitability, you'll never get there. You have to make it real.
