# Three Days at the Library Hotel

Okay, so, I'll jot as much of this preimse down as I can.

There was a "game"? Reality show? Corporate-sponsored CHOP/CHAZ? where me and a bunch of under-40 onlime whatevers with something to prive were invited (can leave any time, no strings attached, etc). to this, like, opulent hotel / office building? It looked like TPB, meets the "Corporate HQ" from Time Chasers, meets The Hotel Tower I dream about -not the Hollywood Tower, it's like this nice hotel in Chicago, I dream about it a lot. Anyway, this was only a couple stories - I think it was inspired by the mansions from Lovecraft Country.

## Context / influences

Okay, so yeah, outside influences, the Among Us AOC and Ilhan stream. Oh yeah, I guess that reminds me, I rmeember reading about the City being sued by the "small businesses" of Capitol Hill to provide reimbursement, and I think part of my brain was like, this is what the end goal of that is.

## Characters

Oh man, so okay, the lead scientists' wife's name, and I remember this because I was struggling at the end to rememeber and I was like "Jill?" and Tiare and the guy were like "Dr. Stein", and I was like "oh lol". No she's not that Jill Stein, though considering some of the themes I suppose that is apropos

Anyway, they were the "Overseers" - but, like, they were like HR patsies.

Oh yeah, there was also this thing where Andy Richter played a guy implied to be like Patton Oswalt's character on Agents of SHIELD, like there were copies of him somewhere, but all the more reason you could talk to him about anything - he's replaceable! IDK I think I might have been getting ahead of the plot a bit much

Tiare, me, and there was a special guest appearance by Foone at the end, dressed like the guy from Vice City (lightweight white suit, blue shirt), and looking like someone from Hackers (gangly but not too gangly, tan but not too tan, Southeast Asian - I'm pretty sure the real Foone does not look like that).

## Plot

So, it's like Blaseball, if Blaseball were run by a new brand of hard seltzer branded as an offshoot of Mountain Dew (as of October 2020, I don't think this exists yet - I just made this up, but it captures the vibe). There's also some heavy endorsement / backing by the City of Seattle (this is where I remembered the "reparations for Blue Moon Burger" context)

Okay, so I described a bit of the setup, but so, part of the idea is, we've got housing, we've got access to whatever hardware we want? Or, like, it's like Battle Royale, we can have whateer we can get from others, though there's no call for us to kill each other?

So, they start

## okay so anyway

I've given this a bit of conscious thought, and I think I've pieced together enough scenes to make this a cohesive narrative

The City of Seattle, partnering with a corporate sponsor or two, invite everybody trapped in Downtown Seattle (the idea I had is that there's an "earthquake warning" about The Big One coming that's been in place for months) to the Library for a VR Launch Event.

And this was the part that was a little like 20020, you could go anywhere in the Metaverse (which was pretty much a town) that you want, but if you want to go through the library, you need to get permission from people to go from your assigned room to wherever you want to be
