# Stubernetes Round 1 Plans and Investigations

Note that this revision died with the rest of [Studtop Mark I](9af1ee19-ac0a-46e1-8a9c-d6815a455f4f.md) in the process of enacting the [June 5 2020 Sprint](0797b86d-85be-439b-8b5f-c5477026a8b8.md)

structures below should probably get moved into State of / Department hubs

## Immediate plans

- [Internal / External ingresses / proxy outlay](911b54f8-89e0-4b92-a07c-cfee57f69d7a.md)
  - background:
    - [dialing the IP block back massively](07e52fe5-91ae-4f98-a565-dcf10e3232c2.md)
    - [total service restructuring](de490ea9-f480-4e03-a671-0d1173753c53.md)
  - [Internal Service Household DNS](9c5c2983-d09d-46de-aace-207223bc82a6.md)
    - [Ingress-less Internal Services](2bb638db-594b-448d-a643-988be98d612c.md)
    - [Using external-dns Internally](5027bedf-e8e5-4900-ac7f-c988a4b89b32.md)
- [Structuring address.expose](cc62331b-165f-445a-ac1c-7166e0d25591.md)
  - [namespace for exposed-system ingress server / forwarding components](78628f7d-78e4-440c-a92e-c60f9f09be7b.md)
- [Auth layers](3742c69e-5707-449a-a23c-ae56f2931114.md)
- [Exposing Home Services](a7a4dc01-33cc-4466-aac4-582dcb86e8e3.md)
    - [Authn layers (ie. oauth2-proxy / Dex)](4e8ff63a-1af5-472f-894e-aa77c859ba10.md)

## Other further-future/less-urgent plans

- [distributing internal certificate?](b07aa324-ac8d-4b4d-99d2-d0dd11168b4a.md)
- Flux for maintaining the cluster state in Git
  - stubernetes-setup is currently a little gimpy
  - will Flux let me put everything in a subpath, so "k3os hacks" can still live in the Git tree?
- [mDNS on k3os?](7aac9bcb-56da-4767-88e2-fc7e36fe4a1a.md)
  - [mDNS Within Kubernetes](82344970-ee2e-4830-9c30-d14d8c4f0f55.md)
- [other vitamins](6eaacf19-314a-4d54-a197-8ee0430f6273.md)
  - [rootlesskit](8f3bc39c-c54d-4156-958d-5571e353309b.md)
  - alternate network layer (ie. calico)
  - ipv6
- [out-of-band hardware management](4c4ef560-d283-4665-8fcb-25c2addd9253.md)

## issues under investigation

- [proactive diagnosis and discovery](e1115e77-62fa-40c5-abbc-bd81c1118d2d.md)
- [household-dns throwing up at normative load](b732fb93-07d4-4ca1-a0e1-306e4ac98a35.md)
- [kubeapps and its stupid cron jobs](18a4adb8-23e9-4f89-adea-b61a8d077ebb.md)

## Alerts that should be set / dashbaords to add

- I should be able to see the power usage of the system on battery, and I should get a notification
- I might want to get notifications for certain classes of error anyway.
- I ought to look into setting this up with an API key to send email by Fastmail.
- Woah, is there a way to set it up so I get notifications through the Push API in-browser?

## application plans

- [Suite Brainstorming](a6b94843-8569-4a45-a25d-ae69a2d9fc22.md)
  - maybe some [home automation](92b3ba74-2df9-4879-9e9c-234421cece41.md)
  - torrent box to hard drive
  - something like syncthing or a Dat server
  - Mastodon
- [Notestack workspace](40517705-1f53-4629-8fe3-cc6733bcf3b0.md)
- probably starting a stuartpb namespace with a CouchDB server on it that I can sync my Tabalanche tabs to
- [random ssh gateway idea](b2c1365f-1a45-40a7-a853-1863eef58c38.md)
- [TensorFlow via Coral](09282b35-a21c-4c97-a5ed-7f015d6735d1.md)
  - Voice recognition for an Alexa clone
- [VM stuff](a48a24b4-28b1-4658-aa93-56022ab95f48.md)
