# Barfspace Arc of Operations

This is the list of quests currently on the docket to keep Barfspace and/or the overall Stuart P. Bentley Notes Hairball tidy or whatever.

It encompasses things that are currently in this repo, and things that are currently somewhere else.

In theory, there might be some point where everything's "in this repo", but I don't see that happening any time soon.

See also [Vision][] and [Implementation][] quests. Any quests for things that *aren't* currently in this repo (or somewhere else) go in one of *those* (depending on whether it's a vision for the content or code).

This might be the closest series of quests to the [Improvement District][RCID]: I think that page might link to the old root that leads to this one (the new root being still more-or-less applicable of an index to be linked at that page, at least as of 2018-12-23).

[Vision]: a8c1b237-886b-4169-88ff-9e52bc1dbcf2.md
[Implementation]: 30ec2e6e-47d0-496a-a523-0732b35aea8a.md
[RCID]: eb1e81f8-5939-4f85-9930-418044018a75.md

## Dividing Up the Old World

Barfspace has essentially grown to encompass most of the previous failed projects I'd meant to do writing on.

Now, it's going to going to expand to encompass [the entirety of my loose writing as one big mass][GMP]. (Note that a major quest that would otherwise be on this page has been moved to that one: the two are somewhat inextricably linked in this way.)

[GMP]: f3f3d6ba-6342-415a-9f3b-ab4f1d75a692.md

- [ ] Close stuartpb.plan.
  - [ ] Remove plan.md itself.
  - [ ] Rewrite the README to point to barfspace
  - [?] Archive the repo.
- [ ] Finally go back and revisit that "my-old-bad-ideas" page on the README.
- [ ] Revisit the list from when things were first being merged into [Lean Notes][] (when bagtent was first being devised).
  - [ ] Figure out a litmus test for the difference between Meditations and Musings, or merge the former (in Lean Notes) into the latter (here).
  - [ ] Merge pitches-and-scripts into here, where it's less embarassing (since there's a sort of ambient embarassment about the place here).
  - [ ] Make sure all the Lean Notes issues are copied into pages in Barfspace before archiving the repo or whatever.
- [ ] Take some territory from [petlogs][].
  - [ ] Papercuts were a plan in at least one machine: that's something that can move here.
  - [ ] a weird thing is that I only feel comfortable capitalizing machine names, which wouldn't count case-sensitive against the hostname, here in barfspace where there's no expectation of structure at all

[Lean Notes]: https://github.com/stuartpb/leannotes
[petlogs]: https://github.com/stuartpb/leannotes

## Dividing Up the New World

I guess this'll probably be the canonical Sisyphean labor for not just trying to give structure to barfspace, but to track the giving of that structure.

- [ ] Carry out some of the plans from the [Department of Development][dept]
- [ ] Split each arc into its own page, this page is starting to get too long and unruly. That'll also allow for more meta-structure around arcs (hooray, meta-structure!)
  - [ ] As we split out, diaspora OK? Quests becoming just a convention that's pervasive through all notes? That'd be cool to me
  - [ ] Write somewhere (in the neighborhood of [metaquiddity][] or [the meta collection][]) about how it's totally natural for more layers of indirection to organically emerge like this
    - [ ] Shout out to the tree down by the "Everything I Know" or whatever quest in the Mindfulness Arc, which is doing this same sort of layer-forming
      - [ ] Like, ultimately, this is part of my overall intent with the Meta Collection to capture my meditations on writing in this repo, and how they echo out in the world around me
      - [ ] Should loop in that one XKCD somewhere around here about an entire system just existing to maintain itself, because I know that's definitely a mania thing I take care to avoid
      - [ ] There's also the thing about how this is all kind of like a rough draft and how, with programming / creative projects, notes like this as a to-do list, if you return to them a ton, so long as you're only focusing on things you currently can do and sub-dividing what you can currently do, you can eventually get to a point where you've effectively accomplished your entire task in the form of specifying out its entire structure (or that a bunch of the chains will collapse into completion after a very small number of nontrivial tasks complete and all the effectively-Promise.all()-like-waits close with the parent checks getting checked off by their lists being completed)
      - [ ] Another meta idea I'm gonna drop right here right now: how, like, all this fanciness I'm doing for hashes is only really necessary for humans under the assumption that we need an adversarial model for authoritative / canonical names like IPNS, and how just searching for a thing and picking the most popular result, like, no kidding Google legitimately changed the world, and now just googling eight words from a John Mulaney act is enough to find you the full transcript within five seconds
- [ ] However Lean Notes eventually shakes out, do have at least another notes instance that wouldn't be published.
  - [ ] Figure out what'd be an appropriate way to distribute this.
    - [ ] Keep a master repository in an encrypted repo on a USB stick on your router-server?
      - [ ] Complete the "Flash Open-Source Router Firmware" quest (which I don't think I've written up yet) to unlock this path.
    - [ ] Keep it on your desktop, and just try to keep it booted into Linux forever?
      - [ ] Unlock the "Booting Stutendo Under Stushiba" tech to make this a more feasible idea.
  - [ ] See note about Blackbeard's treasure currently on Loose Notes.
- [ ] Linking to the Wikipedia page on Eventualism might be good here

## Stuff to do now that the notes are all in one repo

- [ ] Update https://github.com/stuartpb/collected-writings
- [ ] Spin down the Lean Notes brand? At this point, the org has no repos: I honestly might as well just delete it, archive the lean-notes repo (noting in the repo description that it was merged here), and redirect leannotes.com to stuartpb.com
- [ ] Make a stub document for barf.space
- [ ] Steal from old stuartpb.plan
- [ ] Write a postmortem on stuartpb.plan
- [ ] Get back to updating Right Now (maybe move its entry link to the Root Note?)
- [ ] Actually start moving the Trello stuff to Lean Notes pages
- [ ] Write up an explanation of what the hell is going on

## Old plan stuff

So yeah, TL:DR: I'm merging Lean Notes into Barfspace and renaming barfspace to notes.stuartpb.com.

Other ideas I don't think I'd written yet:

- The README is going to be turned into just a brief explainer that these are my personal notes
  - You are not expected to understand these, they are primarily just public to make it so it's as hard for me to lose my notes as possible
  - That you might be able to read them is a useful benefit that I may inconsistently cater to at times
  - When I'm trying to make them accessible, it's as much about making it so I don't forget myself when I come back and try to read them later, if not more, than about making them accessible to others
  - They're like code comments like that
  - These are a constantly-updating set of documents, unless stated otherwise
  - Feel free to get your own ideas from these notes, but don't go attributing anything more than the words to me
- The stuff in Lean Notes' README is going to get moved to a note
- The stuff in Barfspace's current README is going to get moved to a note, too, one that links to Lean Notes' old README as a kind of "oh, here's this whole other website just hanging out inside this one"
- The latter will become the "current root note" linked in the README, after the explainer of how it's just my notes
  - At the end: "With all these disclaimers out of the way, Click here to proceed to the current root note."
  - This part of the refactor might actually come before any of the merging stuff happens
- the barfspace repo will then be renamed notes.stuartpb.com
  - and the CNAME will change, obviously
- actually, I think barf.space should continue to live as its own repo...
  - okay, I'll make a new one for barf.space (since this one is currently "barfspace") that can be a born-stub with a README that just tells the story of Project Barfspace, and how it turned into my notes, and how there's a few pages that point toward what Barfspace is meant to embody within those notes
  - remaining pips here moved to [the name explainer page][], which the barf.space stub will probably enmesh with
- a bunch of other stuff that wasn't merged into Lean Notes is gonna need to get merged into here
  - the big one on my mind is Pitches and Scripts, because that's been like the Meditations that led to Barfspace in that I've had a bunch of tenuous and uncommitted files I wasn't confident enough in

## Owning Your Own Words

Should this really be called barfspace? That makes it a very "separate" project, and it's really transformed into something very tightly enmeshed with your identity; even Test Track 4 (which was your email address's domain name for a solid *decade*) became an uncomfortable side-brand, and that didn't even have "barf" in the name.

- [ ] Rename this repo to something else.
  - [ ] I've been thinking "notes.stuartpb.com", pretty much: keeps things from looking like I want anything here to be any sort of long-term publishing destination.
  - [ ] Figure out what to do with all these lingering references to "barfspace" around.
    - [ ] Turn them into links to [the name explainer page][]?
    - I guess if this becomes notes.stuartpb.com, then you'd just call the general conceptual space of zero-filter self-oriented incidental-publishing (ie. using any platform in this fashion, not just bagtent, which can be used in other fashions) "Open Notes", like "the Open Notes movement"
      - or maybe we'll call it XON, pronounced like "Exxon", for "*eXtreme* Open Notes" *(electric guitar, monster truck noises)*
      - [ ] List this on the [Barfspace Vision Quest list][BVQL], with a cross-reference on the [Network Neighborhood quests arc][NetNQ]
        - [ ] Draft content in a quest on Visions.
        - [ ] Plan deployment by moving an action plan beyond content out as the "Selling Bagtent" quest being moved to a general Network Neighborhood movement quest.
- [ ] Merge in Lean Notes, because at this point, if it's all just "my notes", there's no reason to hold the distinction across repos: graduation can just be a matter of a link "making it". It can just worke like, you know, Wikipedia: no "incubator phase" necessary.
- [ ] This would mean that the current README files of barfspace and Lean Notes would become new pages, and there'd be a *new* README
  - [ ] Progress more on the Meta track (like rereading my-old-bad-ideas and revisiting the Meta Collection) to feel like you've got a handle enough on this to write *another* level of "this page is in flux, here's what I can tell you about what it looks like" README (and see if you can then maybe subsequently do it less in the prior READMEs - remember to do a foreign tree merge).
  - another xkcd that captures what it's like to have truly unbridled organic development: [xkcd 1360][]
- [ ] It's worth exploring why I've become more ready to use a system like this instead of one of the things I've used in the past like Issues or Trello
  - [ ] A lot of the stuff I did in weird Issues... now that I'm really starting to get bored with GitHub, I'm regretting the close ties to GitHub Issues, and am probably going to start migrating some of this design stuff into these notes.
- [ ] The SACRED Properties should probably get explored more in these notes before I try to spin a whole website out for them.

[the name explainer page]: f5d72b81-ccb9-45d0-8029-be70895f65ca.md
[NetNQ]: 8905d737-8f2a-4de7-a850-c1f2b04cd45e.md
[BVQL]: a8c1b237-886b-4169-88ff-9e52bc1dbcf2.md
[xkcd 1360]: https://xkcd.com/1360/

[dept]: eb1e81f8-5939-4f85-9930-418044018a75.md
[metaquiddity]: 3ef0ffc5-818e-4c16-be90-0a8bd6eb8778.md
[the meta collection]: 8c5a1d30-97d9-4395-85be-b6c8ba57b239.md
[Project Akira]: dadfc5e5-cfb6-4f7d-88c0-bcd64b91feac.md
