# State of the Cluster

The cluster is a standard k3os installation on a (warranty-voided) Toshiba Chromebook 2 with these changes made:

- A static hostname has been set.
- My GitHub user has ssh key access.
- Deployment of servicelb is disabled, and `metallb` is installed.
- kubernetes-dashboard and kubeapps are installed.
  - The cluster name has been set to "Stubernetes" in the dashboard.
- The native `coredns` manifest has been replaced with a similar `cluster-dns`.
  - A stub manifest exists to recreate the `coredns` ConfigMap, to support k3s's "NodeHosts" item.
- The native local-volume-provisioner has been disabled and Longhorn has been installed from its Helm chart.
  - A udev rule to automount partitons with a specific UUID is added in config.yaml.
- The native `traefik` ingress has been replaced with a `household-ingress` app (based on Traefik's own Helm charts for Traefik 2) in `household-system`.
- The stable/prometheus-operator chart has been installed with default values.

## More detail

- [State of Stateful Storage](c43b76d1-1f70-493e-ade8-1fe2bcba0a03.md)
- [State of Nodes and RAM](3f468977-84d8-45f5-9381-408fc7c6adab.md)
- [State of DNS and Routing](2ed87275-e67d-4b80-8096-3aba303fb5aa.md)
- [State of Ingress and Exposure](abd281f0-6b92-49d3-8b14-9a3f61671f3a.md)
- [State of Monitoring and Instrumentation](c646929d-f5c0-4921-8b77-ce7e8ded845f.md)
- State of Authentication
  - currently, there is none
  - the [Public Universal Friend](1b61dbdc-5013-4ca8-825e-6d49db1eca61.md) represents any zone that doesn't require my credentials to access
- State of Certification
