# Kubeapp Suite Ideas

## Development suite

- GitLab
- GitPod or some other integrable Theia provisioner
- a [local/internal registry](https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/installation/private-registry/)
- Any other supplemental CI
  - these [Helm deployment systems](https://kubedex.com/helm-deployments/) might apply
  - Maybe some kind of app that automatically sets up your GitLab configuration to push a buildpack and all the end-to-end stuff?

## Minecraft Suite

- The Minecraft server
- Any popular addons?

## Expose - a chart for integrating with some kind of hosting

This is a little different from the rest, as it's more backend-focused

- External DNS
- SSH port forwarding sidecar? Inlets?
  - [call it "shinlets"](68a94766-7e29-4ec7-8d4c-18a0e7bd3605.md)
    - on second thought, maybe nah
- [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/kubernetes/#installing-with-helm)

## Office suite

- mintable for accounting (instead of Quickbooks or whatever)
- some spreadsheet app
  - there was that one that I think was in Rust, backend-only? could be compiled for WASM and hooked into a frontend engine?
  - whatever goes here, add a thing to mintable to integrate it
- something like Google Drive
  - the other apps should be able to use it as some kind of shared backend
  - should have something akin to Google apps' "share as link"
    - this would necessitate the external host integration, of course
  - a distributed backend for this would be great, especially if it's designed for open distribution/replication like Dat
    - maybe PouchDB?

a lot of this other stuff

## Creativity suite

Getting real pie-in-the-sky here, I don't know if there are truly good offerings

- Video editor
- Vector image editor
- Raster image editor

## Torrent/distributed node suite

Needs dedicated Persistent Storage, non-HTTP network services

- Tor stuff
- BitTorrent daemon
  - Deluge?
- Instant.io / webtorrent-hybrid daemon
  - maybe this instead of Deluge
- A local clone of an app like OfflineBay
- Dat
- IPFS et al?

recommends Beaker Browser, maybe?

## Media Service Suite

With a lot of overlap/complement with the previous data-sharing suites:

- Something like Kodi, but web based? Popcorn Time?
  - [more thoughts on a suitable interface here](a9341e3f-04b6-417a-ad83-b669cfd9bd2e.md)
- Something like Internet Archive's emulator setup
- Latertime
  - hell, why not

Could this even, for emus that run better native, handle save file / cheat / mod synchronization across systems somehow? (Would that )

What about Steam and adding cloud support to non-steam-API games

## Content host suite

- A nice pipeline for static pages
  - What about netlify cms?
- PeerTube, but maybe not openly federating
  - Maybe some of the Distributed Suite as well?

## Otherwise file-sharing / hosting

- minio backend
- ownCloud? Syncthing?

## Federation Suite

- Mastodon
- PeerTube

## Communication

- Rocket.Chat
- Discourse, why not

Or federated versions

- Matrix/Riot
- Federated wiki? Bagtent?

Also: email server! With webmail support!

- Prior art:
  - https://mailu.io/1.7/kubernetes/mailu/index.html
    - https://vadosware.io/post/serving-email-on-kubernetes-with-mailu/
  - probably a page on here
  - https://mailinabox.email/
  - https://blog.mi.hdm-stuttgart.de/index.php/2019/08/26/creating-an-email-server-environment-on-kubernetes/
  - https://github.com/tomav/docker-mailserver/wiki/Using-in-Kubernetes
    - https://hub.helm.sh/charts/funkypenguin/docker-mailserver
  - https://github.com/kubernetes-mail-server

## Home Automation

- Something for MQTT light control
- Assistant backend
  - agents (ie. smart mics) would run their own client images to do all the stuff like listening for wakewords and anything else that'd be feasible for onbard calculation on cheap hardware
  - like, is it possible to use the ADC on an ESP8266 to do wakeword recognition and waveform streaming? do we still need a RPi for that? (would even the Zero be able to handle that?)
  - this'd work best on a machine with a TPU or GPU to do that kind of signal processing

## Logistics

- [package/shipment tracking dashboard](b54c8d64-4e19-40e0-aef1-c67a7d0fcec1.md)
