# Barfspace Vision Quests

Quests for content that explain what's going on (or supposed to be going on) around here.

This pairs nicely with the [Visitor Center][] where most of this stuff should probably be linked.

[Visitor Center]: 434dd429-b16d-4924-996f-aaf2ebff29ef.md

See also [Operations][] and [Implementations][].

[Operations]: a3f1fbb2-28c2-43b2-950d-6d5b7af7cd64.md
[Implementations]: 30ec2e6e-47d0-496a-a523-0732b35aea8a.md

## Welcome to Barfspace

Explain notes.stuartpb.com to others.

- [ ] Keep on writing [the updated "How I Roll: Writing" thing.][writing take 2].
  - [ ] Work in pages for the deeper underlying patterns / concepts aggregated under [the meta index][metadex].
- [ ] Write intelligible pages about some subjects.
  - [ ] [Explain the name.][explainer page]
  - [ ] Maybe salvage some of the thoughts from the old meta stuff
- [ ] Describe how this is kind of like Gists, but not owned by GitHub, and with tools to interlink
  - [ ] Talk about how it's nice to have people have separate repositories for owning their own words, and to just leverage the existing hypertext Web infrastructure (or maybe IPFS / IPLD)
- [ ] It really should be underscored how atypical all this stuff I'm doing with Barfspace is for me.
  - Like, I'm generally *huge* about names
  - This is part of how One Of Those Things With Me
  - Also, this is kind of like how Wordnet does definitions?
    - Also, wow, is there another project that tk defintions so deeply
    - Does Wordnet have a crossreference property on Wikidata?
      - How does Wikidata manage reification disagreements?
        - Is reification an appropriate term for "defining what a word/symbol means"? That's how I've been using it. Shit, wait, isn't that Quiddity? Oh dear, it's the [Metaquiddity][] vortex again.

[writing take 2]: 13ceb37e-99d5-417b-be3c-ec7e1bc537ac.md
[metadex]: 8c5a1d30-97d9-4395-85be-b6c8ba57b239.md

## Selling Bagtent

"Selling" in the sense of [Selling to Help][]

[Selling to Help]: aed6ef5f-8318-472d-9c43-d86a5c26cb8b.md

You've got this whole crazy system for structuring content, and you're using it like crazy, but you still haven't explained the *why* of this system to anybody, the *what* or the *how*.

- [ ] Don't forget about [How I'm Writing With Bagtent][]
- [ ] Link or merge this into [BISNES][]
- [ ] Write up an explainer on bagtent (ie. finish README)
- [ ] Identify strengths and weakness (ie. When It Might Make Sense to Use Bagtent)
- [ ] See if anybody would be interested in being a producer for bagtent (a la the [Network Neighborhood quest for "Requests for Producers"][NNQ]
- [ ] Think about a logo or artwork for bagtent.
  - [ ] Look through your Tabalanche stash to see if you can find that picture of a failed 3d print where some of the pieces were partway printed, it was cool, and a good mood-board inspirational aesthetic for all this.

[How I'm Writing With Bagtent]: 13ceb37e-99d5-417b-be3c-ec7e1bc537ac.md
[BISNES]: bfdafa43-6389-46c1-a308-8e6cc68bf0a3.md
[NNQ]: 8905d737-8f2a-4de7-a850-c1f2b04cd45e.md

## The Structure and Style of These Quests

There's a whole question giving me [vertigo][metaquiddity] again about how [this quest wasn't documented earlier][main issue 6], because of course we need a quest aggregating thoughts and progress on the description of thoughts and progress on quests.

[main issue 6]: 55527f74-8390-402e-8bb6-51161b7a8e67.md

- [ ] Note how the voice of quests is kind of like the voice of Git commit messages, and maybe there's something to be made of that.

## Writing and Maintaining These Quests

This kind of overlaps with that last quest, but this is less focused on what needs *to be added to the spec* and more about how the existing content needs to be *wrangled*.

- [ ] Complete the quest about splitting all these arcs into their own pages to give a great context for doing this review of everything written so far.
- [ ] Get a handle on all these places where you've written "we" or "I" where "you" would honestly make more sense.
- [ ] Round up all these loose musings that are currently sprinkled across unrelated quests from this commit.
  - We gotta get auto-commit back up and running, man. (This'd be one of those instances where "you" wouldn't make sense to swap in.)

## Big Bagtent/Barfspace Brainstorm Ideas

Here's a quick stash quest for projects that are currently seed-big-enough to be on the Unusual Studio project list, but are plain enough that bagtent can effectively be used to implement them

They tend to have a characteristic simplicity that's reflected upon in [My Old Bad Ideas][]

- [ ] [Global Issue Reports for Everything][tracker]
- [ ] I had an idea to do this "oral tradition" thing where I'd try to re-type the same story several times from memory to, basically, break my compulsive fear of repeating myself, and also to see, you know, what I can glean about how it affects me (Mindfulness thing).

[tracker]: 1305adb9-59a7-4179-a9fe-0ddedd802034.md
[My Old Bad Ideas]: f3f3d6ba-6342-415a-9f3b-ab4f1d75a692.md

### Developing Best Practices

Let's just go ahead and start collecting some thoughts here that would need to be incorporated into some kind of collected "things to keep in mind when writing barfspace Markdown"

- [x] Note that all links should repeat their symbolic references in each section (try to use a consistent ref per page though), so the section can be moved to another page smoothly
  - Example of where I needed this: the "explainer page" reference above got cut out and moved to the [Great Migration Plan][], so I had to dig around to copy it
  - This will probably be less of an issue once bagtent-rig is ready, though
  - Thoughts on a rollout of this policy are being collected on the [shit-sorting log][shitsort] as of 2019-05-03.
- [ ] Write a Best Practice about how a page should split once it's not easy to remember where any particular clause would be found in a couple seconds of scrolling on it.
  - [ ] Alternately, when you'd want to have multiple carets to keep your place with text you're inserting into one section, because you don't want to lose the position you were previously inserting to to look for or insert text in another part of the piece, it's probably time to have these passages living in different buffers that have all that kind of metadata separate.
  - "Different buffers" is probably the easiest way to describe how I work this heuristic mentally, actually.
  - This also applies to how I generally factor my writing structures, really, code and prose, not just in barfspace (though especially in barfspace).

[explainer page]: f5d72b81-ccb9-45d0-8029-be70895f65ca.md
[Great Migration Plan]: f3f3d6ba-6342-415a-9f3b-ab4f1d75a692.md
[shitsort]: 1da0f61f-c2bb-4b9d-99da-e3f07e18556a.md

## The Quests in the Quotes

Here's a quest I couldn't understand until I took the long block I wrote earlier and split it into several points.

Basically, it's a brainwave about what the "natural titles" of Bagtent imply in their cultural context. It's a complex concept, with conjectural contours.

This should get merged into the Meta stuff, especially [How I'm Writing With Bagtent][].

[How I'm Writing With Bagtent]: 13ceb37e-99d5-417b-be3c-ec7e1bc537ac.md

> Where'd I write that whole thing about Googlability?

- [ ] Describe the implications of a UUID being unambiguous about its significance, as opposed to words which could possibly constitute a distinct statment, but we frequently miss this formation, hence our modern social Eureka: "wait, that's a thing?"
  - This also veers close to the vortex of [Metaquiddity][] to describe further.

[Metaquiddity]: 3ef0ffc5-818e-4c16-be90-0a8bd6eb8778.md

> Anyway, I like the idea of the UUID of that explainer document just like straight-up being "here's the UUID of Stuart's page defining Barfspace, anyone else making a page for it is just riffing off of that,

- [ ] Describe the implications of conjuring a new UUID versus reusing one from outside.

Really, a page that's just, like, "Thoughts on UUIDs for Thoughts" would probably cover a lot of these items

Actually... I should do that, move this section to its own page, then replace this weird shit with... paragraphs exploring the idea dictated here to explore?

anyway the big question is where to put it, so for now it'll just live here until the next time I go down the Vision rabbit-hole

> and Stuart might have merged stuff in back,

- [ ] Describe how Bagtent / barfspace federates (ie. how UUIDs may be reused, borrowed, "stolen", etc).

> but if someone feels their definition / scope / sense / usage has significantly drifted from stuartpb's, they can give it its own UUID,

- [ ] Describe the need for introspection in conjuring, and reflecting on the nature of a page's content, descriptively and perscriptively across contexts.

> and maybe make a stub at the UUID of Stuart's version of the page that describes the divergence,

- [ ] Describe the need to communicate these conclusions when federating.

> because the idea is pages by vague concept that is really just defined by the content on the page and the position of that page relative by links to the pages of the rest of the tree

- [ ] Describe the need to distinguish between separate "cohesive" trees (ie. a symbol can't really reference an instance of that symbol in a foreign tree and trust that it'll keep the same significance, especially not if that symbol also exists within the tree?)
  - This isn't really related to that thought, just kind of also related since I didn't really go into the implications of outside trees when I was originally jotting all this down.

> the UUID is just an inherently unambiguous name to refer to a specific, at the broadest it'd be phenomena surrounding a given UUID, like what happened with 09f911

This should also be woven into the [Data Smuggler][] The-Great-Ephemeral-Namespace-of-Arbitrary-Key-Value-Mapping concept that doesn't really have a page yet.

[Data Smuggler]: 58d3072a-0670-4bc3-9db2-fca214ca725e.md
