# Trello History of Lean Notes, Part I: Bullet Points

(the first three cards were created October 8, 2013, and the last one was created a couple weeks later on October 19.)

## Journal 1: initial card - first content split

- I initially made a board for it, handling thoughts and tasks. (This is how I started with most of my projects when I first started using Trello.)
- I made an organization for it. (I initially did this with Clipsnail, to work with [Aquatintist], but I did it again for Chatphrase, to separate the Tasks board with the board I was saving my links on.)
- I started writing an email to [Decalogist] explaining how I was setting up glasstub.es.
- I'm separating the different things I want to use Trello for into different boards under the glasstub.es organization (namely, I'm taking the lists on the old glasstub.es board that weren't for Tasks and putting them into a new board, such as a Meta board for musings about what I want from glasstub.es).
- I'm making a board for the content, where each list is a topic and each card is a thought to cover within that topic. (This is similar to, and partially inspired by, how I'm drafting Understanding Lua.)
- I realized that I wanted two things: to educate (telling people how things work) and to instruct (to tell the tasks that get things done), so I started marking every card with labels like "Education" and "Instruction". (There's also "Reference", for when I defer to another site, and "Protip", where it's a sort-of education in things to think about rather than doing.)

*(An artifact from this point in history was attached as a comment that is now [here](c66c3d07-6b3b-4f1b-a5cb-2077b308805e.md).)*

## Journal 2: Chapterization and journaling

- I realized that there's a lot to teach in terms of what browsers do (which is a huge component of full-stack development), so I split that into a new board. I also split off the non-technical articles to their own board.
- As I started writing everything else on the technical board it started to get unwieldy (as well as out-of-scope in terms of "things you need" for a certain step, eg. lots of my projects don't use continuous integration or CDNs), so I split the different technical focuses into their own boards, and left stub lists in the top-level technical list referring to the sub-boards I'd made.
- I realized the spaces between the sub-board stubs could each themselves be sub-boards, and the boards gradually evolved into chapters.
- I created an "Overview" board, so that I could make notes on the overall structure that was shaping up (different than the Meta section, where the closest to a direct comment on the forming structure is this journal itself - most of the rest of the content of the Meta section is atomic principles).
- I copied the content of the draft e-mail, that at this point I realized would never be finished enough to send as this design continually evolved, into the Meta board's Notes list.

## Journal 3: Journal pagination, the making of Introduction

- I started adding onto the journal with a more full-fledged explanation of what I'd done, at which point the  list on the card started requiring vertical scroll on my monitor, so I split it around the point where the email had ended before I copied it over and started adding to it: the activities I've done today, since the boards truly started gravitating toward a chapter layout.

Some time later...

- I started working on a standard, and decided to add a section explaining how that works (since the RFC and WHATWG processes, too, don't care who you are or how much money you have), and just generally stuff to know when it comes to external interoperability.
- I busted the Introduction, previously a card in the Overview, out to its own board, since there's some stuff that applies to everything in life (at least, all the parts of life that glasstub.es is concerned with) and understanding glasstub.es, and that should be listed. In general, I should be able to draft the introduction, beyond just saying "throw some stuff together from Meta".

## Journal 4: The Introduction Gets Sassy

- I started beefing up the Introduction, including basically all the knowledge about what applies across the board (Google, have a computer, understand English etc). I continued to add a description of the criteria glasstub.es holds recommended services to (free, interchangeable), then went on to rant against Microsoft (because I saw a service that described its ASP.NET compatibility). I realized that many people new to the scene would probably think Windows wouldn't be a horrible choice for a server because they've heard of it. I started writing a big old essay on why Microsoft is basically the antithesis of everything glasstub.es stands for. It went on to become taller than the screen, so I trucked it off to Meta.
- I rewrote the Microsoft rant, in small scale and with some of the core principles generalized, as a "big names glasstub.es discourages the use of" (Windows and IE). I realized I could fit my anti-GoDaddy and W3Schools warnings here, and in doing so freed up the yellow label, which I then repurposed for inter-chapter links (which previously used the green label like all other "references". Changing all the Previous and Read On cards was already daunting, even for this minor detail.
