# amazing kubernetes idea

an annotation/CRD-linkable-by-annotations that just names the GitHub issue responsible for why a resource is so fucked, and a service that runs through your cluster to see if any of those issues have been fixed and notifies you

call it "kublam.moe"

## High concept

Kublam is for monitoring qualitative shifts in the tech behind a Kubernetes cluster, and then notifying humans / altering cluster resources in response.

## Scope

Kublam is NOT an issue tracking system. It doesn't enforce any kind of "user responsibilty" mechanism beyond "email this address / respond to email from this address". You can use "remarks" and stuff to hack "conversations" like it's TV Tropes, but this will end in tears. Install a proper ticketer.

Kublam should have a dashboard, but it shouldn't be dashboard-centric - the CRDs shouldn't require a "degree in clusterology" to write *safely by default* (so like, if you want "clobber this regardless of any changes made", you have to explicitly say that, and it's just as easy to say "clobber this if it's still at whatever revision it's at when I send the cluster this doc")

Kublam is NOT a CI system. It is not designed to push changes / pull-requests to your app's source control repository and roll out automated packages, or even handle automatic updates to images/charts. Kublam is for *one-off changes to the live state*, in response to a *specific change requiring structural reconfiguration*. If you want to track your cluster's confiiguration in some kind of outside source control, you should figure out how to use that to make these kinds of changes, and shouldn't be using Kublam.

Yes, you could hack this with Jobs that run Git commands with a secret and all that stuff, but

Kublam is NOT a monitoring/paging system. It doesn't track changes to the cluster's live state (though it might respond to them when enacting a plan, like "before splitting the containers out to their own pods, scale the app down if it's currently serving a shitload of traffic").

this sort of thing can be at `kublam.moe/is-not#ci`, and can have an associated "out of scope" dismissal-reason label

## Prior art?

I feel like this is obvious enough that someone's already made something like it?

The thing that would make me pursue this design is that I get the feeling whatever's out there that's capable of this kind of thing is also probably integrated with some monolithic CI/issue-tracker that predates Kubernetes and doesn't work particularly smoothly with it, like OpenShift or whatever

Hence why the reduced scope is so important: it's this refusal to expand into that territory that differentiates Kublam from ecosystem-scale

## Further design

- [Annotations and CRDs](6ff7ba7e-05b1-4535-a409-0a3ffa8ce476.md)
- [Configuring Kublam](65236bd2-00fb-4c19-ae15-23d97d607257.md)
- [User Stories](b6d22b89-7b1f-48fe-af13-27d4278d9304.md)
- [implementation details](b95507c4-ab45-4578-ab41-8f975a536a89.md)
