# What's So Bad About Capitalism? first spew

We're talking a lot about Capitalism in America these days. Some people seem to be blaming it for everything, whereas others (Pelosi) seem to be ready to defend it with their lives.

Which is funny, because nobody ever really seems to say what it is that's *wrong* about Capitalism. They're *blaming* it - DSA has a whole video called "What Is Capitalism?" that jumps straight into fiery pits of hell and killer robots and stuff like that - but they're not tying it to the *concept*. They might as well be blaming it on Thetans - it's just a catch-all for a bunch of social ills. It's a lot like, "this is my religion's devil, and that's yours."

What's so bad about Capitalism? To really understand that, we need to acknowledge that we (the average American) don't have a good comcept of what it is that *defines* capitalism. Like, if I told you, "murder is bad", and you asked me "what's murder", and I just said "murder's a thing that ruins families, and raises terror in everybody", that'd technically be *true*, but I might as well be talking about Murder, the new hit fragrance from Calvin Klein.

Telling people how bad something is without telling them *what* it is is a recipe for control. You wouldn't be able to *recognize* murder, to identify and fight against it - someone could tell you "I didn't murder them, I executed them", and you'd be like "oh, I guess that's fine", and they could say "this person talking to me is murdering me"

So, to decisively hit upon what it is that's so bad about capitalism, we first need to ask: what *is* capitalism? Like, seriously, dictionary definition, what is it?

The dictionary will give you some words, probably talking about "trade", and "the economy", and "private ownership", and "the state". These all gloss over the *key conceit* of capitalism, the thing that makes it *ridiculous*, and yet somehow something we're *actually still doing*. And that's in the name.

So, to really understand capitalism, we have to understand **capital**. This is a funny thing: for a concept that influences *so much* of the world around us, most of us don't have a really clear idea of the actual definition of *capital*. Most of us know that it's something like money, but a lot of us would be hard-pressed to explain what *kind* of money, like, why nobody calls pocket change "capital". And then there are other things that are called capital sometimes, like if someone has a truck that you want for a food truck, they're calling the truck "capital"?

Well, just like a capital letter is the letter at the beginning of a word, capital *wealth* is wealth *at the beginning* of wealth. It's up-front costs. Capital doesn't just mean money - it's money *that makes money*. Now, of course, you could theoretically use *any* money to start a venture, which is why the term can get kind of blurry

So what of capital*ism*? Well, where "monarchism" refers to when the decision of what to do goes to a monarch, "capitalism" is that: it's saying that the holders *of the capital* should be the ones who get to decide what to do with the income. the people who put the first money in. Not the people who do things with that money - they might get a salary, bonuses, possibly even some token stake in the enterprise that doesn't entail dividends and is really only valuable in the abstract as a symbol of control - but they don't inherently, legally, have any rights, beyond extremely bare labor laws that are still being stripped away.

So you give the new money to the people who had the initial money, who tended to be rich in the first place. You know, people like kings, barons... it's pretty much just a way to rebadge the old elitism under a way that doesn't admit you're just doing whatever the people who got in good with the people who were running the show want. Your boss was promoted because their boss liked them, who's boss because their boss likes them, and you keep going up the chain to the top, where the people in charge got there just because they're rich.

and that's where capitalism starts to fall apart: this idea that the people who had the money are in charge outweighs any kind of common sense. like, you can get fired, legally, for prioritizing the planet over profits. unless you're a b corp, which is not the norm. it was a big deal when kickstarter did it, for instance.

but yeah, also, control of your company can just get bought and sold from capitalist entity to capitalist entity

and of course this leads to a whole lot of emergent phenomena which is generally what people are talking about when they blame Capitalism, but this is the notion that defines the core of Capitalism. this stuff seems incredibly basic, but we don't acknowledge just how fucking absurd this is

so when we say "capitalism is wrong", we mean that all these things that happen *under* capitalism is wrong, but fundamentally, the thing being rejected is this idea. Capitalism is the idea that might makes right, that you'll get a better society by ignoring what most people want and letting the same group of people, giving them extensive legal means to punch down, but virtually nothing to hold them accountable.

we could get into the darwinian underpinnings of the rhetoric that's usually used to justify this, but meh

## diving more into the "what private ownership Marx rejects" thing

This is the key thing about understainding this concept of "private property" that the Marxists hate. We're not talking about *personal* property. If it's not something that could make something worth money, it doesn't factor into any of this. Sure, we might have opinions *at* that level - I heard about some monks who regard *everything* as collectively owned by their monastery, so if one of them loses his glasses, he'd say "where are *our* glasses", even though they're prescription just for him - but that's, you know... personal. Not the kind of thing anybody who's serious is going to argue about at a political level.

## maybe cover the whole government-is-subsidizing-the-rich thing?

you might ascribe

## so anyway, back to script outline? What's So Bad

The key point is that the problem is that it literally equates wealth to power - if you have the money to own the corporation, you have legal control.

## deeper

There's the old classics we're taught in mainstream pop culture shit:

- It rewards sabotage

But, some pf the bigger issues get overlooked:

- People who work on stuff *do not get* the profits (because, even though the ones who deserve it, they're not the ones who are *entitled* to it in the eyes of *capitalist law*)
- They don't get to have a say in who their boss is or what they do (a boss appointed by a hierarchy going up to the aristocracy)

## okay, what's the overall idea here

it's to make people realize just how fucking *antiquated* capitalism is. To stop seeing it as "the modern culmination of society", and start seeing it like your country being governed by a handful of goofy pricks in powdered wigs who are in no way subject to accountability to the public.

These corporate arrangements just grew out of the East India Company crown agreement. It's just an overly-bureaucratic veneer over a social contract as arbitrary as "whoever is oldest with the fewest links by descendance to the previous king" or other bizarre historical rules for determining who gets to take your money when the brute squad gets called.
