# What's So Bad About Capitalism?

We're talking a lot about Capitalism in America these days. Some people seem to be blaming it for everything, whereas others (Pelosi) seem to be ready to defend it with their lives.

Which is funny, because nobody ever really seems to say what it is that's *wrong* about Capitalism. They're *blaming* it - DSA has a whole video called "What Is Capitalism?" that jumps straight into fiery pits of hell and killer robots and stuff like that - but they're not tying it to the *concept*. They might as well be blaming it on Thetans - it's just a catch-all for a bunch of social ills. It's a lot like, "this is my religion's devil, and that's yours."

What's so bad about Capitalism? To really understand that, we need to acknowledge that we don't havea good comcept of what it is that *defines* capitalism. Like, if I told you, "murder is bad", and you asked me "what's murder", and I just said "murder's a thing that ruins families, and raises terror in everybody", that'd technically be *true*, but I might as well be talking about Murder, the new hit fragrance from Calvin Klein.

So, to decisively hit upon what it is that's so bad about capitalism, we first need to ask: what *is* capitalism? Like, seriously, dictionary definition, what is it?

The dictionary will give you some words, probably talking about "trade", and "the economy", and "private ownership", and "the state". These all gloss over the *key conceit* of capitalism, the thing that makes it *ridiculous*, and yet somehow something we're *actually still doing*. And that's in the name.

So, to really understand capitalism, we have to understand **capital**. This is a funny thing: for a concept that influences *so much* of the world around us, most of us don't have a really clear idea of the actual definition of *capital*. Most of us know that it's something like money, but a lot of us would be hard-pressed to explain what *kind* of money, like, why nobody calls pocket change "capital". And then there are other things that are called capital sometimes, like if someone has a truck that you want for a food truck, they're calling the truck "capital"?

Well, just like a capital letter is the letter at the beginning of a word, capital *wealth* is wealth *at the beginning* of wealth. It's up-front costs. Capital doesn't just mean money - it's money *that makes money*. Now, of course, you could theoretically use *any* money to start a venture, which is why the term can get kind of blurry

So what of capital*ism*? Well, where "monarchism" refers to when the decision of what to do goes to a monarch, "capitalism" is that: it's saying that the holders *of the capital* should be the ones who get to decide what to do with the income.

So you give the new money to the people who had the initial money, who tended to be rich in the first place. You know, people like kings, barons... it's pretty much just a way to rebadge the old elitism under a way that doesn't admit you're just doing whatever the people who got in good with the people who were running the show want.

and of course this leads to a whole lot of emergent phenomena which is generally what people are talking about when they blame Capitalism, but this is the notion that defines the core of Capitalism

It's also the core of Fascism, but that's probably a thing for another video.

This is the key thing about understainding this concept of "private property" that the Marxists hate. We're not talking about *personal* property. If it's not something that could make something worth money, it doesn't factor into any of this. Sure, we might have opinions *at* that level - I heard about some monks who regard *everything* as collectively owned by their monastery, so if one of them loses his glasses, he'd say "where are *our* glasses", even though they're prescription just for him - but that's, you know... personal. Not the kind of thing anybody who's serious is going to argue about at a political level.
