# package tracking kick

This is coming in as I've sourced the parts for my Pwnagotchi from non-Amazon sources, and I want to track them to know when they'll be here since they don't just come 48 hours later

## automatically pulling package tracking numbers from email?

does gmail do this? I feel like gmail would do this

## only sort of related

epacket seems like a decent enough shipment form? idk how long it's gonna take to get here, though

## APIs

This is where I feel like this starts to intersect something from Lean Notes?

- https://www.aftership.com

## the low-rent version

I store all the data as hyperlinks to tracking pages in a local-notebook

## notebook display fanciness

heck, you could even pari that up with a scraper to auto-update. like, that could even be a general fancy dynamic directive for editors or some kind of bots: "content of div matching this CSS rule"

I guess that kind of just starts to overlap the Notebook idea huh, just have a file that includes a document that includes Cheerio, then makes a couple lists of identifiers on the page, then there's a line that pulls from those pages

but that's a clientside-display implementation. a version that copies the data into the content of the page itself? hmm

that might not be bad for naturally-push-updated content like something derived from a Dat, though

heck, I'm also thinking, like, "what about embedding the latest Toot from an account", like GNU Social or MicroPub or whatever is the transport mechanism for transclusion here. and this is still pretty much an embed - and it starts to feel like banner-ad sidebars and stuff
