# How the notes.stuartpb.com Repo is Structured

The way I figure it, every [bagtent][] repo is a little different, and not everything lives in the bagtent spec (if I ever get around to writing it at all, that is).

[bagtent]: ba00b8cb-9d05-4aef-bd50-0990f82dd723.md

This page is kind of a legacy appendage from when [Lean Notes][] was first destructred (creating the first "bagtent" repo, in theory) and imported to this repo under [Project Akira][]. The section of Lean Notes' README

[Lean Notes]: f00c3d23-8848-4bb4-8d7a-d009f7344374.md
[Project Akira]: dadfc5e5-cfb6-4f7d-88c0-bcd64b91feac.md

## the content/ directory

Everything lives here, in Markdown files with arbitrary UUIDs. For more about this, see [bagtent][].

There used to be more in this repo, but [I cleaned it out](c5b9235c-429b-4d82-9760-edc82cb258ee.md), and [I don't think it should have much more for now](b2dade14-8a6c-4643-9fdb-2fc6b441016c.md)

## the bin/ directory

Here's where I'm putting a few scripts that make managing the bagtent easier.

There used to be more, but they've been split off to their own respective projects: there should be a script in there that checks them out as sibling directories.

## the root Markdown files

- README.md is rendered as an index on GitHub Pages, and when viewing the repo on GitHub.
- CONTRIBUTING.md similarly interfaces GitHub documentation points into the notes mass.

## IDE files

- the .gitignore has some old rules for Cloud9 dating back to when that was a thing.
- the .theia directory contains data for GitPod, which is how I primarily edit these notes now.

## etc

- CNAME tells GitHub Pages what host to serve the site on.

## possible future changes

For more ways the repo structure may change in the future, mosey on down to [The Notestack Engineering Core](30ec2e6e-47d0-496a-a523-0732b35aea8a.md)
