# The June Judgment

This is a revival of the considerations previously iterated in GitHub issues (I think how-i-roll#3 and one in Lean Notes) as to how each of my remaining non-code-centric GitHub repos into these notes (ie. as a merge, remake, or link), and what to do with the remaining repos (ie. keep, tombstone, archive, and/or delete).

I'm doing this in prep for applying to a Technical Content Manager position at [Mozilla](0da88c9b-a01f-4303-9868-0aab47ae8bbc.md)

Any repos described here that will be left standing and active for general purposes (such as doodles-and-riffs) ought to be hung under the jurisdiction of [The Beyonder Consulate](e1c5817b-ece2-47c1-a2bc-2fe6f082abc7.md).

Repos that I decide aren't "Markdown-centric", but have a lot of good writing attached (or are otherwise "notes-y") are being collected [on this Good Repo Writing side page](94a04d2e-1387-4090-8d79-be3e82222928.md)

I'm going down [my list of repositories](https://github.com/stuartpb?tab=repositories) to generate this list.

Repositories that are intended to contain code, but really need some basic drafting work, will not be deleted in this phase, but they will be noted on the [Empty Vessel Page](64191570-68c9-47c0-aabd-fada84891fd5.md).

I should also take a look at my remaining Cloud9 workspaces to see if there's uncommitted content in the repo, use them to close down the repos for workspaces that exist for them, and, you know, download and all that other stuff I have to do because it's [Closing Time](b7c6ef38-0130-439b-aad1-40eb31ada49c.md)

(META NOTE: the repetitive structure of these headings spawned [this thread](8694f320-4a7b-47d2-a79c-43d8e4b964fe.md) about macros)

## [doodles-and-riffs](https://github.com/stuartpb/doodles-and-riffs)

I'm thinking this will be **left untouched**, as this repository currently does not track non-Markdown assets.

If non-Markdown content gets specced out satisfactorily in the future, this decision might be revisited, as this is a bagtent-like catch-all of miscellaneous SVG files.

See the Beyonder Consulate entry for more on this.

## [collected-writings](https://github.com/stuartpb/collected-writings)

Okay, many of these have already been merged into these notes, and many more will do so.

I'm thinking I'll **keep** this repository, but **move all items describing content that's moved here into a subpage** (so I'll **save this for last**). Even if the description already got merged in, I'm still going to keep an item on a list tracking that it used to live on GitHub before it was archived.

I'll also **add links into the note pages its content has been moved into**, or at least a page detailing the good note clusters like Lean Notes. (That one might link off to a subpage collecting The Back-House Works, though that might just be a combination of Big Titles and The Trash, which I believe is linked from there).

So maybe there'll be a destination page here for "Repos that were Merged in and Tombstoned" and another for "Repos that were Summarized and Deleted" and another for "Repos that were Merged and Deleted"

I'm also thinking **the list of specs will move to a note** that can be linked from Collected Writings, and then these notes can interface more neatly with "graduated" specs.

## leannotes

This needs to be **tombstoned and archived** with a link pointing to the Lean Notes Nexus here (as it's already been merged).

All the issues from here can get recapped and revised in notes themselves (with maybe a link briefly in the history, then removed... as feasible).

## manual-of-style

This ought to be **merged and deleted**, since there's no real non-master-branch content here, and I'm not as wild about it as a standalone idea as I used to be (it could maybe graduate out in some form at some point in the future), and I think it'd benefit from bagtent's sprawl-and-spread capability.

## terbit

terbit should be **copied to a Soft Projects subpage and deleted**, since there's no code attached.

If, at a later time, I decide to start implementing this, I can make a new repo and graduate the content back out with another copy (maybe linking back to these notes for further thoughts)

Also, this should be hung around an Alphabinary Brainstorming nexus here which I don't think exists yet, as well as a Programming Puzzles idea hub

## gate-cards

As there is a file in here, as dumb as it is, and a few commits, and I don't want to mess with mixing content in these notes, I'm going to let this repo **remain, but with a page for it added to the Method Lab**.

## couchdb-in-a-hurry

This is robust enough that I consider it "graduated", and as such I will let it **remain**, but **link it into Journeys / Lean Notes** (as well as keeping it on collected-writings)

## stuartpb.plan

The readme.md should be **copied in to a new page**, which can be updated to point to the appropriate nodes for its links, and then hang off the existing "planfile postmortem" structure here.

The CONTRIBUTING.md can get merged into whatever legacy Contributing node we have here.

The remainder of content from PLAN.md **will be reintegrated to these notes from the commit history going forward under Operation Trapper Keeper** - I think there's something like a Kaneda Contingent that's still around to do this from Project Akira.

## sacred-properties

The SACRED Properties, which have Issues and History, should be **merged into a page under the Method Lab, issues copied in, tombstoned with a link to the notes page, given a CNAME, and archived**.

## github-mistakes

This repository is a little opinionated and snotty, so I'm going to absorb it **into these notes under the Lean Notes umbrella** by **merging, destructuring, moving items into subpages, and attaching the issues as new subpages in a second list**.

## gullibot (DONE)

This was **copied** into [a subnote](6f1da333-f2b2-46d2-a163-84b99db838f4.md) of [Game Projects](47a84b6f-b858-4064-9563-00230ab4c1e5.md), then **tombstoned and archived**.

## how-i-roll

**See [how-i-roll's Tomb](bbeba5e6-b56a-4a1d-9547-8241311e7cf2.md)**.

## help-wanted

I've decide this should be **copied into a series of subnotes, as artifacts**, then **tombstoned and archived**.

The artifacts can be stashed somewhere by History Force, and the individual Help Wanted descriptions for projects that have notes pages here can have the artifacts linked in, and the projects that don't **will have project pages created**.

This was a neat idea, but... I don't really know how to work it today. If I come up with a suitable replacement that's more functional than just my Project List (like, maybe something that's holding cursors that've fallen out of Right Now), I can link it from whatever stub is linked on help-wanted-s tombstone.

Also, that tombstone should note that it's mostly redundant to Unusual Studio Projects now - the import page might as well also include a subnote for the 4 projects that aren't integrated into that tree.

## procons-and-lawrats

Since this is a repo I want to keep OpenSCAD files and/or other assets (ie. SVG) in, I'm going to **keep** this repo, but **making [a note for it](c10f1c1c-e46a-4d84-8868-6ed4950beac9.md)** under [game projects](47a84b6f-b858-4064-9563-00230ab4c1e5.md) collecting my brainstorming thoughts for it, which I might then **link in to the repo's README.md**.

## crane

Since this is a bunch of brainstorming for a project that I think is already out there, I'm gonna free up this name by **merging the content in** as a project page and then **deleting the repo**.

I was thinking of copying, since the history is mostly just merges, but I figured it's worth preserving the file's history if I'm going to blow away the repo.

## writing-the-ship

I'm going to **copy the README and issues into a new [Game Projects](47a84b6f-b858-4064-9563-00230ab4c1e5.md) note**, then **tombstone and archive**.

Said note is [here](4a3472e4-873e-410a-98e8-5fe082da06f4.md).

## it-takes-a-neighborhood

I'll **copy** the biopic material to a Pitches and Scripts node, add Issue #1 as probably content to that, and copy the reading list as a subnode of that page. I'll then **tombstone and archive the repo** with a link to the notes nexus.

I might also check Cloud9 to see if my "spiritual successor" notes ever got written.

## the-bloated-age

This will be **summarized on a page under Big Titles**, the one issue under it moved there, and the repo deleted. (I might check if I've written anything under Cloud9.)

This should also get linked from the Left Notes.

## mad-max-tarot-cards

These amazingly-barfspace-like files will be **copied** to a page linked from Game Ideas, the Tumblr Zone, and the Tastesland, with the creation / edit dates noted, and then the repo will be deleted.

Alternately, if I've got a C9 workspace with more thoughts around this, I might do a proper merge first - that way, I don't have to note the history.

## valley-of-lost-careers

These will be **copied in** (with dates and background included on the root page), then the repo will be **deleted**.

## FetchController-spec

Specs and proposals like this will be **linked** at this time, from a new "Actually Specs" page living alongside the Method Lab (formerly mistitled "Specs Lab").

## praisefiles

I've been mostly ignoring forks, but this idea... needs to go back in the oven. **Punting** on that for now, but at some point in the future, this **should be revisited** internally to these notes (basically, eat the issues, and maybe delete the issues and start afresh).

I just keep feeling like this is going to turn into that Nosedive episode of Black Mirror

## lash

this is similar to crane, in that it's a spec for a project I don't think I'll ever do: it *is* within my ability, though (or at least, developing the interfaces is), so I'm thinking I'm going to **move the README content to a project page here** (leaving a link on the README, like a tombstone), but **keep the repo around** in case I ever give implementation a try.

## pop-sankey

This is like doodles-and-riffs, in that I'm thinking it'l be **left untouched, but remembered for if my SVG work ever gets its own bagtent-like structure**.

## threejs-ways-to-do-it

Since I believe the content for this died in a browser crash, I'll go ahead and **copy the old Issues in** under a superpage kept under Journeys, and then **delete the repo**. (Could also check C9.)

## if-i-ran-tf2

I'm thinking this can **get merged into** my notes under Game Ideas (it can go under the "Mods and Tweaks or Whatever" heading), and then I can **delete the repo** (I should also have a page internal to these notes to link out to all my TF2 content).

## sane-icons-spec

Like FetchController-spec, this will be **linked as a spec** (though I believe it's been superseded largely by manifesticon).

## css-plaintext-spec

**Linked as spec.**

## floc-esimation

I'm thinking this can be **moved to a page under the Method Lab** (with a note about the date and the origins in Tabalanche), then the repo can be **deleted**.

## wicg-best-practices, wicg-tracker

Aw geez. My old WICG repos should be **linked from a page** that lives in History but can become News as soon as I revisit WICG (which I might do after Mozilla) - and I *want* to delete them, but this one has a star, and, well

## pwalls-spec

**Linked as spec.**

## mindom-spec

**Linked as spec.**

## date-rosetta

This should be **copied** (maybe dated) and then **the repo can be deleted**.

I'll bring back the repo if I ever make the converter for this.

Alternately, I'll keep the repo around, but the content will move here, and I'll return to this repo (maybe bringing the filled-out content back in, as starting documentation) when that's ready.

I've also been thinking "The Rosetta Project" should be a larger initiative to these notes - an explicit endeavor to collect the conventions across systems that also entails the Open Dictionary of Reserved Words and the Namespace Taboos thing and all other kinds of conventions that could work in the kind of things that're enumerated [in D's style guide](https://dlang.org/dstyle.html)

this also sits somewhere around Lean Notes and the old "specs laws" idea

the Frink Units File is also like a sacred text of this project

## stuart-explains

These stubs from 2014 should be **copied** into a subpage of Lean Notes and Pitches and Scripts (along with the issues), and then the repo can be **tombstoned and archived**.
