# bagtent

This is an index page for pages that talk about bagtent, ie. the tooling and structure of these notes

Most of these are carried out by the [Notestack Engineering Core](30ec2e6e-47d0-496a-a523-0732b35aea8a.md), who also handle non-bagtent related projects for my notes (like the Git commit shotclock).

## historical remark

this ought to be incorporated into whatever history of bagtent/barfspace+LN/notes.stuartpb.com is drafted: https://github.com/stuartpb/how-i-roll/issues/3 was where I originally came up with the architecture

also, I think there might be an artifact about [Lean Notes][]' original README? I might have gone ahead and broken that down though. The one that described the repo's layout? I think all the content from the old Lean Notes readme has been dispersed one way or another

## Related

[The Academy](a8c1b237-886b-4169-88ff-9e52bc1dbcf2.md) collects documents about the structuring of these notes, which is heavily informed by bagtent.

[Worse is Better](8d87892e-c2dd-4be5-998e-0e0908a1e99b.md) collects reflections on organic tendencies that play around the design of bagtent

The organic junction that is [The Oozy Sewer](379558c6-0383-4726-9cdb-9e5a89784dfa.md) lies somewhere between those two and this page - probably more between this one and the Academy (hence why this page will probably become the University of Bagtent and this page can maybe get a catchier name - maybe "The Institute of Notanicus", that sounds suitably insane for these notes)

## Related Tools

Lots of the Notestack Engineering stuff is relevant to bagtent, but [git-shotclock and its interface for loose integration with bagtent-orphans](df25aada-7f8c-420c-97bc-51366556b6be.md) is close enough that I feel it's appropriate to link here.

## Notes

- [Semantic Markdown](60205bb0-13ba-4730-a571-5b884a001314.md)
  - A conceptual node aggregating many of the similar projects that influence this one
- [Bagtent Tooling and Interface Development](b7c9b553-a923-41aa-9772-de2056570656.md):
  - [Bagtent Authoring Tool Notes](e1c84681-d395-4533-81c1-233f5bb5bbe3.md) (ie. scripts)
  - [Rich navigation / rendered web interface thoughts](bf03649f-7721-4d95-af2e-bfe803bf996a.md)
  - [Authoring tool](08857d94-59d2-46db-a1a3-dd6ea5d55cf0.md)
  - CLI tools
    - [Profiling and parallelizing Node scripts](39a6a7d4-c75e-475d-af2f-282fb7205a99.md)
  - [Markdown Editor Enhancement Ideas](87c2f51c-8e9c-4c83-adf9-744b806ac028.md)
    - [URL-to-Titled-Link](161171c1-e533-4526-af64-1278e16ad517.md)
  - [bagbernetes](6969b9d6-3e77-462d-84e0-a3b95d268586.md)
- [The Boundaries of Bagtent](aefd82d8-74cf-496d-90e7-97f2303dbac0.md)
  - ie. how far you can get from notes.stuartpb.com until the design is no longer "bagtent"
- [Brainstorming Applications of Bagtent](454625ee-8b12-42b9-a05c-b2d533f08fcf.md)
- [Guide to Good Bagtent](2015dc83-db74-4f1f-a089-d07c3bd38dc1.md)
  - [Bagtent Manual of Markdown Style](70fa4c0d-914b-4e59-9a26-e1b3c99573e6.md)
    - [Inlining links](a4e46084-4a99-4eee-a40a-794ddcdbf1d8.md)
  - [The Oozy Sewer](379558c6-0383-4726-9cdb-9e5a89784dfa.md)
- [Federation and Distribution](abf92e6b-7ba0-41f3-b13a-63ec77133cf3.md)
- [BISNES/BIGDOG](bfdafa43-6389-46c1-a308-8e6cc68bf0a3.md)
- [Random UUIDs as a concept / UUID Usability Nexus](25d7f993-c280-4075-87cb-535c51102b26.md)
  - [Alternatives to UUIDs](6120589f-57ac-4512-8835-cabef39ec4f2.md)
  - [Why Not the Alternatives?](a60cf34b-d9c1-4e95-adb1-5789492bc124.md)
- [mcgraph](7048da8c-32dd-47a9-a140-ec8959b2dd73.md)
  - caching/generating the link graph
  - also talks about a "fast parser" for Markdown

## markdown note, not sure where to put this

- [mermaid for writing graphs](6bc47ad5-9608-46fe-8959-7d087263d6cb.md)
  - I'm thinking this might be a specific rendering mode I'd want to incorporate if publishing these notes on a better system
