# Notifications and Windows Tab/Card Model

Been thinking about how we're moving into a shared space again between the Ntification Bar and Recently-Used Apps, where notifications are really just a group preview of an app that wants to be in your recently-viewed

Also things like a music player - could easily be a PiP video player. Same idea could extend out to Chat Heads

We're getting all this rich UI attached to notifications, and it's like, what about just peeking into the whole damn app showing a Notification view?

I was thinking about how one model of "terminal processes" could be like "I want this to go away when the process finishes" versus "I want to return to the shell" or "I want it to halt, but let me see the final output" - or you could even turn it into a text field

## mm!

Hmm, I think I hit the nail on the head with that "grouping" metaphor - like, this would be a really sensible way for a browser to function, just keep all "tabs" open as Groups, so all the pages I have "open" on washingtonpost.com are "the Washington Post "app""

I mean, hell, this is virtually how Tabalanche works anyway!

Now what'd *really* be useful would be to track that third dimension of time, so you could tell which pages you had open in a group... as a snapshot...

and you'd need some way to clearly navigate between auto-groups and manual groups to determine a snapshot's "lineage"

there's the whole thing of, like, if I reopen a page I have open in another deck

Anyway, yeah, I think what'd make more sense would be to make it so I could open as many "browser" instances as I like, each dedicated browser being a different "app" deck, and, like, "allow multiple tabs in this deck" can be toggled off

so call that button "Uniquify"...

hmm, okay, so each "unique" has the matching criteria for which open-links etc. open within it / in a new tab under it?

## integrating with my Touchscreen Terminal idea from before

the "app switch" would only come after the "pinch gesture" which this resistive touch screen doesn't have, but, like, could just be the screen tap

I guess it could even be top/bottom touches? double tap?

## Overlap

Some of this also overlaps with ideas like Heimdall's Smart Tiles

There's also this idea that there... hmm

There's Home Screens / Dialers, and how do you associate that to this model? Perhaps a "Show Icons" button / bar, where the button is

What of next-level grouping, then? Folders in the launcher? Bookmarks?

Maybe you put them "in the launcher" like HypnOS, and it's "next-level" pinned

Hmm, yeah, you can make an "app" that's just a home screen, and that's your "folder"

This is also like Heimdall. Also kind of overlaps with Binder, and here's where we start to go down the Windowsystem Metabrowser rabbit hole

The core idea here, though... okay so the home screen has a checkbox that's like "close this launcher once I pick an app from it", and that can be a certain degree of "sticky" (where on launch it either remembers the last setting, or it always reverts)

Maybe there should be a "remember/forget-and-reset-to-saved" screen to configure this kind of per-"app" preference?

The Dock, then, is like a Picture in Picture / Chat Heads / Split Screen of this app

## one of the core ideas that's emerging from this

It should be possible for users to easily create a construct on the fly that current windowing paradigms reserve for authoring domains (like how there's no "New Window" for Android apps)
