# Remaining Writing in Foreign Repos

This is an early draft of the [June Judgment](b7b835c5-d843-4888-ae53-bd8aef36d5cd.md) that is currently decomposing. Once everything's reconciled, this page can become a postmortem on why these notes have formed a better incubator than loose GitHub repos.

- [ ] stuartpb-loadout
  - [ ] Maybe have a note page describing how I generally roll these days, loadout-wise.
- [ ] Manual of Style
  - This was, itself, just an offshoot from
- [ ] github-mistakes
- [ ] The SACRED Properties should probably get explored more in these notes before I try to spin a whole website out for them.
- [x] stuartpb-exit-codes was already kicked into the shitpostsphere
- [x] waxhead-revisited was likewise moved into barfspace
- [ ] The Plates of GATEs thing should probably get some kind of page in these notes, and probably be un-repoified... unless the template is in there already, in which case, eh whatever.
- [ ] What even *is* stuart-explains?
- [x] HOARD Guidelines should really move to here, unless, like GATEs, it has templates in the repo (which tbh it should)
  - I've made a stub for it [here][HOARD] - let me check if I ever actually wrote anthing...
  - Nope! Nothing in the C9 workspace. I did write up a little thing explaining my procedure for packing for trips, but I'll throw that into a separate page.
  - I did make label templates for it, but they were pretty simple, and I'm realizing now that the label approach was a bad idea. This one can somewhat be chalked up to falling apart the way so many of [My Old Bad Ideas][] have
  - Repo deleted, workspace destroyed - it's officially absorbed into the notes. Huzzah.
- [ ] date-rosetta can probably continue to live as a repo but will need a notes page (the Projacronym/Concept-Lab page alludes to a "Shadow notes" nexus at some point, that'd be where those notes would fork from)
- [ ] Gullibot and Writing the Ship should move into notes
- [ ] help-wanted should be absorbed into the notes

[HOARD]: ab4e905a-db98-4ca2-a52d-93eaf8dc8ca4.md
[My Old Bad Ideas]: f3f3d6ba-6342-415a-9f3b-ab4f1d75a692.md
[Concept Lab]: 9a2890e2-a0fa-4484-9c1e-3c7c7ec4f28a.md
