# My Not-Particularly-Well-Hidden Agenda

Reminder for noon or so, in workspace: `git checkout accountability2019/convention`

## Background

The source for these bylaws is <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ji2TRNhj_GgBICdcHguKJde_mXcnE2nKFV701LIU5TI/edit> - they left it open for anybody to suggest changes, so it's kind of messy (a lot of the suggested edits are just people mashing the keyboard for no reason), and I recommend reading the prepared versions linked below below anyway, as it's the actual prepped version I'm proposing.

## Agenda for floor changes

Assuming I can get reliable Intneret at Washington Hall, all changes will be reflected at <https://gitlab.com/circusrosa/seattledsa-rules/blob/accountability2019/convention/bylaws.md> (the bold "new bylaws here" link at the top of DSA.FYI right now).

We'll be starting from the version at <https://gitlab.com/circusrosa/seattledsa-rules/blob/accountability2019/upstream/bylaws.md> which is more or less what I originally proposed

First merge is <https://gitlab.com/circusrosa/seattledsa-rules/blob/accountability2019/continuity/bylaws.md> to bring proposal into closer alignment with our current Bylaws

### Continuity stuff I've yet to finish porting

(as of when this note was comitted: these may be done by the time this debate comes up)

- SC termination (mostly just the one saying you need to show up to meetings, since the "may be recalled if they botch things massively" part is kind of redundant to the existing disciplinary rule for members)
- Sections 7 and 8 of the old Article II (Endorsements and Public Respresentation, both of which are critical)

## Optional provisions from Accountability's template to be discussed

- Online Voting (IMO we can punt this to March)
- Lots of other stuff, but I gotta go get dressed right now

## Amendments

Of the other amendments slated for the Convention:

- Amendment 1 would work the same way: all references to "Seattle Local" would be changed to "Seattle-King County Local".
- Amendment 2 would be appended to Article 4, section 5 as follows:
  > The Treasurer will prepare and post at least once a month, in a location accessible to the members of the Steering Committee, a written financial report that includes categorized income and expenditures, beginning and ending balances, and beginning and end dates for the time period encompassed by the report.
- Amendment 3 is my amendment, so I can figure this one out on my own.
- Amendment 4 is obsoleted, as these bylaws already specify Robert's Rules as the final authority.
- Amendment 5 would be appended as Article X, Section 5.

## FAQ / Notes

### Additions over old bylaws

- Caucuses and committees *mean something* - it's not just empty recognition any more!
  - Caucuses have to be given access to all the same chapter communication as the Steering Committee!
  - Committees have a *whole article governing their operation*, as opposed to the old Article VI which is basically a long-worded version of "eh, say you're a Working Group and we'll figure something out"
- All members are allowed to participate in Meetings remotely - not just Local Council (who were never explicitly allowed to do this under the old Bylaws, but did anyway)!
- A sudden radical drop in attendance *can't be used to pass unpopular votes!* (new Quroum requirements, A3S4)
- Robert's Rules is both explicitly specified as the final authority on all procedural judgments, *and* simpler guidelines like Rusty's Rules are encouraged to be used in practice! *Everybody gets what they wanted here!*
- Branches have *more than two sentences of definition*!

### Practical changes from old bylaws

- Diversity requirements now apply to the whole Steering Committee, and not just the Organizing/At-Large subset.
- Every meeting is now eligible for voting business, instead of just doing it quarterly. In 2018, I think we had as many meetings where we needed to add (or should have added) emergency votes, and it's not like 2019 is shaping up to be *calmer* politically. (Also, suffice it to say that disengaging members from chapter business on a regular basis... has not led to an increase in the accountability or functionality of our leadership.)
- The duties of Vice-Chair are

### A few things not preserved

- The part about the Local Council holding a "State of the Local" in the bylaws is dropped. This seems like more of a Convention Committee discretionary decision, and isn't it kind of just political grandstanding that entrenches the propagandist hold of existing power anyway?
- Article V, Sections 4 and 6, dubbing the Local Council as an all-overseeing power holding all authority for conflict resolution, is dropped. For elaboration on why this was a bad idea, consult <https://dsa.fyi/>
- The Solidarity Fund provision is dropped (was Article X, Section 2, would go somewhere around Article II, Section 3). I don't think we ever used it, and it seems like kind of a weird distinction (why are we saying a *tenth* of our money should be reserved for solidarity with membership? Who's the other 9/10 supposed to serve?)

### Other nominal changes from old bylaws

- The layout is more consistent, simple, and straightforward (there are no subsections, only Articles and Sections).
- The provision for "Informational meetings" is dropped - I don't think we ever had one, and a special provision for holding meetings where members are not allowed to vote doesn't really pass the Accountability litmus test.
- The Internal / External Organizing / At Large distinction is dropped - these things are now handled with ad-hoc communities (and, in practice, the distinction, if it had been observed, would have been counter-productive in 2018).
- We explictly say the chapter's jurisdiction is King County.
- There are fewer "will explore / may create / shall have" rules in the bylaws (though, due to the beleaguered nature of this work in the past year, that number is still not zero).
- The position of "Secretary" is now dubbed "Communications Facilitator". While this is only a symbolc change, it was a conscious decision arrived at through much national debate within by the Accountability WG, and while there is room to discuss this in the future, I don't feel like debating this symbolic decision is an effective use of our time at the Convention.
- The body of elected officers is now called the Steering Committee and not the Local Council. This matches what most chapters I've been in touch with nationally call theirs, and personally, in the wake of the horrors of 2018, getting rid of the shady "[Local Council][Betty]" name would go a long way to quieting the anxiety attacks I get when hearing about the latest news out of SDSA.
- I think I took more care to make sure all the section numbers are sequential but whatever

[Betty]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rRwveaw1oK0

## Roadmap

### Known issues we might want to look into for the future

- Some of the stuff that's presented in comments and footnotes in the source draft should be integrated as explanatory in the final text, like those parenthetical lines in italics on Magic the Gathering cards.
- Lots of stuff saying "in accordance with local law" should probably be changed to *actually be* in accordance with local law (unless we *want* to give the chapter the option of pulling up roots and ditching Seattle like the Sonics).
- There's *still* no clear Code of Conduct.
- The correlation between when the Local Convention and when elected officers take their seats is kind of de-facto correlated (like, we're just using January by precedent, but the February lame-duck period is hard-coded). This could be revised.
- We could, if we so wanted, change the name of Communications Director back to Secretary, though I think the note about avoiding gendered and subservient cultural connotations here is a valid one. It's a debate I'd rather have, long-form, over time, in something like the National Discussion Forum. (Per Dag's comment about calling it "Data Custodian", I kinda like calling it "Speaker/Keeper".)
- Might be fun to revisit the Preamble.

If anybody starts trying to eat Convention time debating some meaningless symbolic naming thing, since this is still technically *my amendment*, I'm gonna change it to some Dr. Seuss thing like "floopyboops", and then we'll resolve the problem later, Solomon-style.
