# Serving DNS servers from Stubernetes

looking a bit at the [minikube ingress DNS server](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/tree/master/deploy/addons/ingress-dns), which at least taught me this could be done in Kubernetes (with its [example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/minikube/master/deploy/addons/ingress-dns/example/example.yaml))

but, like, I'm pretty sure this can be done using CoreDNS (now that it has the "kube-external" plugin or whatever) - [a custom Docker image](https://gitlab.com/cryptexlabs/public/development/minikube-ingress-dns) seems like overkill

## setting up

TODO: go back and find CoreDNS doc links - was looking at [prs](https://github.com/coredns/coredns/pull/2379)

First steps are going to be a server that will be internal-only to serve routes to internal services.

Until a "public DNS infrastructure" is set up, this can resolve public services, too - that should get blacklisted later, but in the meantime, this is a nice way to get around "I set up the site but I can't view it because of DNS" issues

## Let's Encrypt

One thing I've been turning over is if I might want to give a global namespace (ie. one with a TLD) for cluster-internal service, just so Let's Encrypt can find it and give certificates?

I mean, Traefik handles this? or cert-manager? idk, I think cert-manager might be needed for this. Food for thought - possible next steps.

## once set up

We can change it to be the DNS server recommended by DHCP

the backing servers... I guess we can't have the server get the DNS server from DHCP at that point, so... can we configure it to use DNSSEC or whatever that HTTPS DNS thing Cloudflare's running is? On top of being effectively a 1.1.1.1 setting, it also gets the whole network tunneled encrypted DNS requests, so, like, bonus
