# Anti-techniques eschewed in Lean Notes

## No toy enivronments, no sandboxes

You can learn by making real websites from the beginning, sites as real as anything out there

Lean Notes never uses a "transitional" environment. Your product is your grade.

Things you make following Lean Notes are capable of easily growing into full-fledged enterprises, without needing a complete overhaul.

## No empty exercises to build character

When designing Lean Notes, I wanted to avoid the traditional "Write something like this for exercise" traps of tutorials that tell people how to write *something*, but not something they can actually *use*.

I remember when I was in school they'd demand we type out code that was already out there, that we could just copy paste (or even *not* copy paste), just so we could see that, yes, it does what they say it does. That's moronic. Tell me what I can do, and let me see how it works by letting me FIGURE OUT HOW TO USE those things I can do, by solving SOMETHING I KNOW I WANT FOR MYSELF. That's what I signed up for the class to do, there's no reason to waste my time doing something else.

Everything I've learned I've learned by doing. Not empty "doing" that was essentially just reading and repeating, but by digging my fists into what I read and pulling out what I needed to make what I came to make.

Lean Notes lets you learn by telling you *how to do what you want*.

For instance, I wrote Chatphrase from scratch, knowing how I wanted it to work. I read the tutorials on building a "demo" chat app, ignored everything about how they suggested to do signaling because it didn't match the way I had it modeled, then I read the relevant WebRTC bits that were necessary, and invented my own long-polling signal mechanism (knowing how XHR worked, and what I needed to communicate- I looked up Redis pub-sub and ignored every Comet library out there).

## Don't use bad practice to avoid teaching something

Rather than introducing a notThatCondition function, just teach for things where you only teach for things with thatCondition, then introduce the ! operator once you need a "not".

## No self-congratulation

Lean Notes doesn't call attention to itself (except in these Meta notes, obviously).

I'm not so insecure I need to go on long diatribes like Zed Shaw about how great and manly I am and how stupid everybody else is in the middle of a fucking manual. We're here to learn. We can congratulate ourselves in private.

This is a naturally self-defeating quality to name (I'm SO GREAT that I NEVER TALK ABOUT MYSELF NEVER EVER), so this card will be the only point where I mention it directly (and I'll try to avoid other "I don't have terrible personality flaws cluttering up my work!" tenets).

Because seriously, fuck Zed Shaw.
