# Taverns and Commissaries

Where notes Look For Group, ie. content that can't be easily placed into the current structure.

Structures that emerge from taverns generally inform refactors, overhauls, and restructurings to accomodate new structures that emerge in the tavern.

This is documented or at least alluded to somewhere around [Mutation Analysis](379558c6-0383-4726-9cdb-9e5a89784dfa.md), I think the "[thing that grew off Right Now In These Notes](9d2999b6-8d6d-417b-9a60-36df93a05192.md)" page

Taverns in these notes:

- [The Messay Spoon](7fa477ff-839e-4f7f-ad26-da48021fa2e9.md), for random messays
- [Odd Project Ideas](cbe928d9-338d-402c-a1c3-5c1ab5704bb5.md), for project ideas
- [And The Rest](fd071a93-8373-4adc-84c6-ae781c7d0442.md) is the tavern for pages that don't fit into any other tavern
- [Weird Stubs](231786d3-4a9b-4451-9df1-e2049b90b0fe.md) is like the non-exclusive version of that page, for pages that aren't *technically* otherwise-orphans, but are way further down in the tree than they should be. (It's also for pitching pages that'd probably end up like that.)
- [Loose Notes](ff47c3c8-6686-4225-ba27-23f61c604e0d.md) is the tavern for content that I can't figure out what page structure I'd even put it in
- TODO: add more here as the aforementioned refactors around Mutation Analysis pan out

## see also

- [Appendices](f161276f-fd3c-49bb-93b1-3e99aab9e266.md) is a neighbor to this page - it's kind of a "half-tavern"? I don't know, it's fallen out of use, I originally considered replacing it with this page before deciding to give this its own new node
  - It's the ultimate tavern for... incubators? And it's somewhat like Loose Stubs, in that pages on it are allowed
  - And, you know what, it's allowed to let those pages evolve into Indices...
  - It's... like Cheers, for Cliff and Norm. It's a page for pages with content that is perfectly content just living in this tavern forever, thank you very much.
  - Yeah, there's a lot of overlap between Taverns and Appendices... the main difference is that this page is more about linking out to taverns that sprung up for content, and that page is about creating taverns that might join the tree. And in that sense, it kind of overlaps Weird Stubs / The Rest, in a way that this one doesn't... this is like the Stable Branch version of that page's Not-Ready-For-Primetime Experimental Development Branch. (I think this kind of [Mutation and Emergent Structure](379558c6-0383-4726-9cdb-9e5a89784dfa.md) is documented - this example can get pulled in either way.)
