# A little thing about Quests vs. News vs. Right Now

I'm gonna see if I can get this page to be the standing center for reflecting on "current state" versus "plans" and "recent developments" - this is something that tends to send me spinning in the [metaquiddity][] vortex, so I tend to get... rambly. There are a few big tangents on this subject around - I've moved a first one to here.

[metaquiddity]: 3ef0ffc5-818e-4c16-be90-0a8bd6eb8778.md

(the following was previously stored in [the Akira mound][mound])

[mound]: dadfc5e5-cfb6-4f7d-88c0-bcd64b91feac.md

So the thing is that News was, and/or is, meant to be like "snapshots of my life right now" - highlighting the cross-section of all my projects... Right Now was originally supposed to be a rotating overview of what's on my plate at the moment, but it's becoming obvious that it'd work a lot better as an index for something like a constant State of the Union for all my projects, with the index being the concise snapshot, maybe.

Anyway, there's also a matter of General Notes for Projects, and Quests (which often don't slice evenly to projects) to boot.

So I'm thinking what might make sense would be to merge Right Now with Project Ideas, Project Ideas maybe turning into a page or two like "Just Idle Thoughts and Planning" -

oh snap, Right Now is just Stage 1 and 2, where Ideas was Stages 0 and 1, in Unusual Studio terms. So maybe that's the solution?

Nah, I think what it is is... I should have a Projects index with just, you know, everything as a big list with "all the pages for each project, if there's no dedicated index page for it", something like that, where they're really pretty much just in order of how hairy the notes situation is?

No, wait, they can be organized in terms of stage (and then hairiness, maybe, IDK). Anyway, Right Now would then be a recency-list index

One axis I feel like I kind of need to slice along is "projects that are inherently personal" (ie. "fix the left joycon to stop drifting on my Switch" versus, like, NilPass), and I think that was the original intention behind Right Now, to reflect my personal priorities in a way that a Projects list couldn't. Right Now was meant for the personal - but not *too* personal? because that's what News was kind of about.

Okay, so, that's kind of served by Quests, really. My "current personal state" is best reflected as a recap of what's to be done, personally.

So maybe Right Now... yeah I think Right Now just needs to become, like, Quest Tracker, with the Quests page being the overview tree of all Quests.

and I mean that does reflect its origins as a Planfile

and then Project Ideas can become the "random aimless musings" connector to that, where what we're currently calling "News" becomes "where I put random aimless musings when they're not clearly attached to a project".
