# The Shadow Curtain

This is meant to be the page tracking and alluding to repositories of content that is kept foreign to these notes.

[BISNES/BIGDOG](bfdafa43-6389-46c1-a308-8e6cc68bf0a3.md) and [Federating Bagtent](abf92e6b-7ba0-41f3-b13a-63ec77133cf3.md) both explore the concept of tooling for Random Markdown Graphs that may need to interoperate with different levels of confidentiality

It crosscuts a lot of [bagtent](ba00b8cb-9d05-4aef-bd50-0990f82dd723.md) concerns

## reflections in motion

public notes on my internal noteball [here](e758ed35-88a5-4d7e-91be-a23e8db69bfc.md)

## Purpose

- [Bulletin on Problematic Content in Public Notes](4a5a2e9c-585d-4492-9c3d-52ce476795b4.md)
- [The Role of the News Page](4469becb-5e0a-467c-ab05-89a7e6555bca.md)
  - Touches on the limitations of what my public notes can hold
  - Clearly delineates how my "three core personal notebooks" would be factored
- [Softly Encrypting Secret Content](de39c59d-7091-4e34-84ff-9c25ceed1055.md)
  - This describes an implementation for secrecy / encryption that also has a clear use model
  - It follows from the concept from the Role of the News Page notes
- [Spec for codebooks et al](1cb2f5e0-47b2-423c-a1c8-362afa0f81ff.md)
- [Encrypting a whole repo for a secret noteball](01711827-4e0c-49e2-a546-5317cb79a3a6.md)

## More thoughts on keeping a private repo synced

- [Mostly by running a Git server or something like that on a Raspberry Pi](8a752277-0d93-426d-aa5f-d799cce7be45.md)
  - [Thoughts on storing private content on an on-person IoT Git server](8ee4ce3b-d7bc-46d1-a7df-913a847bf2b1.md)

## rehosted note from Loose Notes

[Blackbeard's Treasure](47d09240-6a5e-4955-9939-d8977d3bb2a2.md) public/private/secret three-layer personal disclosure classification model?

On this note, these linked pages should consider having a "confidential but not encrypted" host, versus a host/toolchain for encrypted database(s) that could be kept in secret locations (this might be a job for secure scuttlebutt? maybe not necessary for one user)

## Implementation

The rest of this page is working with [The Notestack Core of Engineers](30ec2e6e-47d0-496a-a523-0732b35aea8a.md) to figure out how these priorities intersect with the Outstanding Challenges there

## Brainstorming "quest"

Taken from the only Barfspace Quest that was moved to the Operations page (the one where the Divisions are listed now) and not later rearranged to be under [Operation Trapper Keeper](1da0f61f-c2bb-4b9d-99da-e3f07e18556a.md):

- [ ] Set up a private bagtent tree for notes that should remain unpublished and private.
  - [ ] Figure out what'd be an appropriate way to distribute this.
    - [ ] Keep a master repository in an encrypted repo on a USB stick on your router-server?
      - [ ] Complete the "Flash Open-Source Router Firmware" quest (which I don't think I've written up yet) to unlock this path.
    - [ ] Keep it on your desktop, and just try to keep it booted into Linux forever?
      - [ ] Unlock the "Booting Stutendo Under Stushiba" tech to make this a more feasible idea.
