# Film School scene

here's a little thing I made for an assignment when I took a screenwriting class in 2013

I had someone confused why it starts in an Interior if it's Gates: the answer is that, in my head, this is underground or something. They decided to set it at the top of a mountain, which makes thematic sense, so yeah, I'm cool with that

I could probably talk more about this at some point but I'm mostly just throwing this in for completeness's sake

```fountain
INT. BEFORE THE GATES OF CORVARIUS

BLAKE THE TRAVELER climbs the last few steps to meet the CORVARIAN GATEKEEPER,
a shadowy, regal figure in long, flowing robes.

GATEKEEPER
Welcome, traveler, to the Gates of Corvarius. You have demonstrated great
fortitude to reach this sacred apex.

BLAKE
Hi.

GATEKEEPER
You may now present the Key of Kaipalcha and, in unlocking these gates, begin
the next triumphant act in your noble journey.

BLAKE
Key? What key? There's a key? All I was told was that was that I had to cross
through some caverns, forests and stuff until I got to the Gates of Corvarius,
then, you know, more caverns and forests and stuff. At no point did anybody
mention a key.

GATEKEEPER
You do not have the Key of Kaipalcha?

BLAKE
Is it some ephemeral thing, like a lesson I learned about kindness or something
like that?

GATEKEEPER
The Key of Kaipalcha is an artifact, forged of purest bronze, with the grandest
jewel from each of the three kingdoms of Travalia upon its hilt, symbolizing
the grand union of...

BLAKE
Yeah, I don't have that. Where exactly was I supposed to find this key?

GATEKEEPER
The Key of Kaipalcha rests in a dungeon deep beneath Mount Gustero, on the
skirts of the town of Candleville...

BLAKE
Candleville?! That's, like, almost all the way back where I started! I am NOT
schlepping all the way back to Candleville. I'm on a fairly literal deadline
here. Why do I need this key again?

GATEKEEPER
Without the Key of Kaipalcha, you cannot pass the Gates of Corvarius.

BLAKE
And why is that?

GATEKEEPER
The Key of Kaipalcha is needed to turn the tumblers of the Iron Lock of
Varis Paris. This lock was built to guard the Gates of Corvarius a thousand and
ten years ago by the noble smith men of...

BLAKE
That lock right there?

GATEKEEPER
That lock.

BLAKE
You're saying regular human smiths forged this? So it's just a non-magic pin
tumbler lock?
(beat)
You know, I'm pretty good at picking locks, and I really do need to get through
here. Do you think I could take a crack at getting through it without the key?

GATEKEEPER
I am the Keeper of these gates. To let you do what you have asked would be to
forsake my one duty, appointed by the Guild of Thresholds, to protect...

BLAKE
How much do they pay you?

GATEKEEPER
Seventy Rigals a day.

BLAKE
That's not bad. Look, Theodore the Wizard sent me. I'm on this really important
quest, and I really need to get through this gate. I've got seven hundred
Rigals weighing me down from this treasure chest monster I killed in the forest
a while back. If I gave you all of that, do you think you could let me have a
look at this lock?

GATEKEEPER
Hmm... you say the noble Theodore sent you?

BLAKE
Oh yeah. Did he ever.

GATEKEEPER
I suppose, for a quest from the great Theodore, it is permissible to make a
slight exception... provided what you say about this treasure is true.

The Gatekeeper holds out his hand, politely, to recieve what is essentially a
very noble bribe. Blake pays him.
```