# Lean Notes

This is the root node of a cluster collecting all my thoughts on best practices and how-to guides for pursuing any sort of project or idea, whether it be a book, or a Web app, or a board game, or a 3D model, or a screenplay, or a microchip, or an essay, or a robot, or a logo, or whatever.

This was the original repo where I started trying [bagtent][] as a content structure. It quickly expanded to incorporate my other big project of formless writing, [barfspace][], and then grew into this notes.stuartpb.com repo through [Project Akira][] (which I'm currently treating as the historical term for these notes during the transitional period encompassing the merger of all these notes between when the barfspace refactor/merging started happening and the repo was posted to notes.stuartpb.com), work that now continues under [Operation Trapper Keeper][].

[bagtent]: ba00b8cb-9d05-4aef-bd50-0990f82dd723.md
[barfspace]: 7f9a66a0-38fc-49e0-8489-270cdd3036ee.md
[Project Akira]: dadfc5e5-cfb6-4f7d-88c0-bcd64b91feac.md
[Operation Trapper Keeper]: 1da0f61f-c2bb-4b9d-99da-e3f07e18556a.md

## Possible retitling

I'm thinking maybe the stuff that's been loosely kept together as part of the "Lean Notes" project should maybe be repackaged as "Everybody Owns a Platform", ie. to mirror [Everybody Gets a Factory][], which makes sense under the larger project here

I'm thinking now that "Lean Notes" can become the umbrella term for the whole bagtent / Extreme Open Notes philosophy, where everything is just filed randomly by die rolls or whatever, and pointed to by link, and maybe you paginate them in separate physical places or whatever, or partition or redistribute or whatever, but so long as you follow a consistent random-numbering philosophy (bagtent is best for this in electronic form) and allow everything to be Choose Your Own Adventure like that, you'll not have to stress out about how to keep track of what notebook that would have been in or whatever

you could maybe also use a 20-sided die numbered 00 to 19 and roll it a number of times to get an ID, or something like that (the 00-19 thing is recommended for even digit distribution and parity/check digits)

this is starting to turn into a project off of the Spec Lab

UPDATE: this evolved into the [UUID Dice][] idea

[UUID Dice]: 5075bbef-356b-4022-910b-53fae7382803.md

## Previous Plans

There's a lot of history in the Trello to port to here, but one of my ideas involved somehow reformatting the notes to be presentations.

Anyway, [here](https://github.com/hiroppy/fusuma) is a project that does that (Fusuma)

## Constituent Parts

There are currently a few pages that make sense as living "under the umbrella of Lean Notes", in some sense:

### The original Lean Notes series (first drafted on Trello)

I had a series of cards on a collection of Trello boards that I was using to mock up something : https://trello.com/leannotes

Back on January 18, I decided that, for accessibility's sake (and growing increasingly wary of Trello since its acquisition by Atlassian), I'd rather have these notes written as Markdown essays on GitHub (for easy replication to anywhere else Git is supported).

At the point in September 2018 when I merged these other projects below into this repo (and refactored it into files by UUID in the process)

But even when it came to the original boards on Trello, some chapters had little to no content beyond a title and a summary. Some Previous / Read On lists will lead off in directions that don't make any sense. Some sections may just link off to a GitHub Issue for details instead of having something written in the text itself (and *that* issue may have nothing in it).

See [issue #1](https://github.com/stuartpb/leannotes/issues/1) for more information on the process of migrating these to GitHub; file a new issue if there's something specific missing that you'd want to know, and I'll answer if I can.

Even when it was on Trello, I was experimenting with *multiple* Tables of Contents, sorting by different criteria:

- [The first one ("Table A")][Table A] is the general "order" you might want to go through if reading "cover to cover". It presents things in a somewhat interleaved fashion, explaining ecosystem between mechanics, things like that. It's well paced, but somewhat non-linear.
- [The second one ("Table B")][Table B] is sorted by scope. It's more "linear" and "focused", but more stratified: "learning" isn't as mixed with "doing". Table A links to all the content that was on boards in Lean Notes, but Table B doesn't have a place for all of them.

In the merged version of this repository, these Tables have been kept, and may be developed out to incorporate content from some of these other projects, or integrated into some larger "index documents " that may link to them as part of a larger-scope guide.

There's also [this board][The Dark Side], which I think I never put on either Table, because it's more like an Appendix.

[The Dark Side]: 63e8cc20-12e4-448b-97c2-30b16d9e6374.md

There's also [this page listing all the tags][Tag readme] that doesn't *explain* them (yet), but it does give attibution for them.

[Tag readme]: ced13582-8e1a-4b38-9469-896206590dfb.md

### Stuff I Do in my Projects on GitHub

This was the bulk of an older repo originally named [how-i-roll][] that is only of historical interest today. See that page

[how-i-roll]: bbeba5e6-b56a-4a1d-9547-8241311e7cf2.md

[Barfspace Operations]: a3f1fbb2-28c2-43b2-950d-6d5b7af7cd64.md

The remaining page about github repo/org creation, though, is still a solid jumping off point that can get integrated into this Lean Notes structure in some way (at which point, all these notes)
