# The stuartpb.plan File

Part of The History and State of stuartpb's Project Tracking, managed by History Force. (For more about how I write ideas in general today, see [the page where I'm trying to cover how I write in these notes](13ceb37e-99d5-417b-be3c-ec7e1bc537ac.md), which is still being adopted by the new Department of Barfspace structure)

## About

The stuartpb.plan repo was an experiment I tried for the first couple months of 2018. https://github.com/stuartpb/stuartpb.plan/blob/master/readme.md

The main issue that made me stop updating PLAN.md was that it wasn't allowed to sprawl in scope the way that Barfspace is, meaning that if I still liked something that I had written there, even though it wasn't really relevant, but it also wasn't obsolete, I couldn't just leave it there.

This is why I'm so stoked about the whole [bagtent][] model, really.

There were other issues - the pressure to leave emo stuff in my personal life out of the Git history, the sheer size of the content I eventually would have had to overhaul to make the updates not suddenly atrophy when I wanted to update them in a hurry, stuff like that - but, in general, it's stuff I'm expecting barfspace/bagtent to be able to address.

[bagtent]: ba00b8cb-9d05-4aef-bd50-0990f82dd723.md

This is evolving into a quest under the [Barfspace Operations][] line.

[Barfspace Operations]: a3f1fbb2-28c2-43b2-950d-6d5b7af7cd64.md

## To Do: Swallowing the Planfile

There was good stuff in the stuartpb.plan file that got abandoned in early 2018. Bring it on board here.

- [ ] Keep updating this page.
- [ ] Create new quest material / other pages here for the existing stuff on there.
  - I think this is mostly done by this point?
- [ ] Deprecate / archive the stuartpb.plan repo.
