# My Old Bad Ideas

This musing is kind of intrinsically tied to [how I try to sort my shit out][get your shit together].

It was, for a time, host to the [Project Akira planning content][Akira], the predecessor to the new "get your shit together" page: I've come to a bit more clarity on this concept, and as such, I'm reworking all this.

[get your shit together]: 1da0f61f-c2bb-4b9d-99da-e3f07e18556a.md
[Akira]: dadfc5e5-cfb6-4f7d-88c0-bcd64b91feac.md

## The Mistake I Used to Make

I used to think that having a *perfectly-shaped vessel* was the main impediment I had to a bunch of stuff: that, onceI could come up with the *perfect table of contents*, the perfect title, the perfect structure-for-this-content, I'd be able to knock it all out in a way I never could before.

I was convinced that the thing inhibiting my creativity was the lack of a venue for it. To some extent that was true: my output *exploded* once I found Cloud9, and I no longer had to wrestle with "I can't work on that right now, I don't have my workspace for it handy". Or just the fear of losing my uncommitted work, of having my tooling become lost and obsolete.

But, like, the actual solution ended up being to find *the barest bit* of structure I needed, and then to work from there. For example, I think I had this remark on a Trello card I had, for an idea I'd had of how some Stack Overflow questions would better be answered by a full page that could receive community contributions in the form of pull requests, one that could be forked if the original maintainer stopped paying attention or doing maintenance:

> This seemed like a smart idea when I wrote it, but looking back, it's redundant to... Stack Overflow questions and Octopress posts. This idea failed one of the criteria I've only really come to understand in the last few years: "is there anything stopping the kind of user who'd know what to do with this from doing it themselves today?"

After I copied that quote into this page, I found myself remarking on something that I was finding myself smack-dab in the middle of:

> (Update: in light of what I'm doing right now with Lean Notes where I'm effectively turning it into a federated wiki of guides, that last one is especially hilarious)

"what I'm doing with Lean Notes" would eventually be abstracted out as [bagtent][], which ends up being perfectly amenable to what I was describing - except *simpler*, because, unlike Octopress posts, the name of a particular approach or solution can be *preserved across forks*, however the site forking it chooses to present the URL.

[bagtent]: ba00b8cb-9d05-4aef-bd50-0990f82dd723.md

This has been one of the great Enlightenments I have received over the past few years: how many complicated ideas can be boiled down to just "a collection of interlinked documents". It's easy to lose sight of the fact that the World Wide Web is, itself, an app - the whole Internet is just an "application" of computing, and "computing" as we know it is just a particular application of logic and electrical engineering (and a bunch of less-Aneristic forces, due to the taint of being forced to interface with humans).

Beyond that, though - because this is a bigger idea than just that, like how I legitimately needed a Web IDE to be productive - there's some idea lurking about the nature of MVPs.
