# barfspace: the name

so, as [barfspace expands][big quest], I've got thoughts on what "barfspace" refers to as the name formally gravitates away from referring to (a subset of) [my original collection of notes][OBR].

in a way, this page may be the space where I most astutely reflect on all my thoughts on why bagtent works the way it does

[big quest]: 1da0f61f-c2bb-4b9d-99da-e3f07e18556a.md
[OBR]: 7f9a66a0-38fc-49e0-8489-270cdd3036ee.md

- It's bigger than any one body of text, really... it's an idea, like "the Web" or "the Collective Unconscious", of all the ideas that don't quite make sense in words, but do have a cogent and effective purpose, a right to exist in the world.
- It's magic. Barf magic.

## Pulled Directive from the Great Quest

Use barfspace as a greater term for the general, like, mass of worse-is-better content, that's only structured in that it's easily accessible from a desktop terminal (ie. it's hyperlinkable).

It's barf because it's half-digested, inconsistent and gross, but you needed to get it out, and you can move a lot better now that you did.

So, like, under this definition, a large, amorphous section of my notes could be said to live "in Barfspace", but, like, particularly-polished circuits that blur the lines into being sub-projects (like Lean Notes) would be less clearly "barfspace" (though bagtent could easily be thought of as a "Barfspace system")

## The heading of the old "Owning Your Own Words" quest that led to the merge / rebrand

This was the question that ultimately led to the integration of other projects and the whole project being moved to notes.stuartpb.com:

Should this really be called barfspace? That makes it a very "separate" project, and it's really transformed into something very tightly enmeshed with your identity; even Test Track 4 (which was your email address's domain name for a solid *decade*) became an uncomfortable side-brand, and that didn't even have "barf" in the name.

