# What's So Bad About Capitalism? 2020-04-16 draft

this isn't meant to be a full draft, just a thing I wrote to encapsulate some of the bits I struggled with before but have more clarity about now

---

To answer "What's so wrong with Capitalism", we first have to know: what *is* capitalism?

As ordinary folks who never took a class on this stuff, we never really talk about capitalism in the capitalist world: it's one of those terms that everybody wants to use, but nobody wants to admit they never actually talked about, and it shows.

(cut somewhere before that)

And if you've never really confronted the concept, it's likely that you... don't really know what capitalism is, like, what exactly it entails. A big part of what's so wrong - or, rather, why capitalism's so bad if we're still living under it - is that most people living under capitalism aren't sure of the definition of what *is* and *is not* capitalism.

You might have an idea of bits and pieces. The most common answer goes something like this "Uh, I know it has something to do with how we use money - oh, is that it? Using money? That's capitalism?"

No.

It's understandable how you might think that - if all you ate all your life was vegetables, you might start to think that that's what "vegetable" means, that anything you eat is a vegetable - but *that's not capitalism*. It's *commerce*, maybe, but humans were doing commerce *way* before Capitalism. *Thousands of years* before capitalism. There was always some asshole taking more than his fair share, but "capitalism" as a justification for it is really something we've only come up with relatively recently - around the time of the American Revolution, incidentally.

(again, cut that somewhere midway probably)

And it's also understandable that you wouldn't have a clear definition of it because it has so much stuff that definition entails as an implied result. When people who understand capitalism - not starting from some contorted place of having to defend it, but just recognizing it for the antipattern it is - start talking about it, they get emotional, and start talking about all that stuff around it. If someone asks you to tell them what an atomic bomb is, you don't start by stating the atomic weight of uranium. The DSA has a "what is capitalism?" video, and it depicts capitalism as a bloodhungry sentient factory that ravages the countryside like Godzilla.

Well, cool, now I know how they feel about it, but I'd like to know how I feel about it, and I can't know how I could say "What's so bad about capitalism" until I can actually just answer "What's capitalism?"

Yes, capitalism does have something to do with how we, as a society, treat money, but to understand the actual *definition* of it, we have to drill down into what it is that capitalism defines, exactly.

Okay, so, money. Yeah, we've got all kinds of ways we've made money more complex - ways so you can bet against a sports team doing better than their opponents' past performance and still winning, and still come out richer than you started -

(reboot that sentence - trying to gesture at, you know, derivatives et al)

we've got all kinds of arrangements we contort and complicate this idea into, but at its foundation, the idea of money is that we're using a token to represent the work someone did to contribute to something we want.

*That's not capitalism!* Let's nip that bit in the bud right now: not only is this *not the definition of capitalism*, capitalism *screws this basic idea up*. It starts here - capitalism and socialism, this whole bed of economic philosophy takes this concept as its ground truth - but it's the *next* level of things where the *capitalism* part happens.

Okay, so now we've gotten to where the "ism" part lies. Now we look off to the left side of the word: What is capital?

Well, we know that capital has something to do with money - hey, is that what capital means? Money, that's capital? *No!* Yes, capital is a *kind* of money

(capital sentence stuff etc I think is written elsewhere)

Capital is the money you need before you make money. Now, it's not that you need money: it's that what you need is a whole bunch of work, done by a whole bunch of people, to get you a bunch of other stuff that comes before the work you do to make money.

But *you do that work*! This is where the key bit comes in.

You're doing the work that makes it so whatever you're doing *gets more money than what you put in*. "Oh, is that capitalism?" We're close! This is the part where the part that makes Capitalism Capitalism comes into play:

Who gets to say who gets that extra money?

Here's where I feel it'd help to jump into the Ultimatum Game.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ultimatum_game

This essentially models the basic conceit of capitalism: the one who put in the capital is the one who gets the lump sum afterward and gets to parcel it out as they see fit.

That's the part that makes it Capitalism: the rule is that whoever put the money in is always the one who gets to play proposer.

Capitalism, as it stands, is nothing more than the system that exists solely to enforce that arbitrary rule.

What would happen if all the profits came into the loading bay, and the workers who made it said the boss could come down and they'd decide how much of it they'd like to let him have, if any? The cops come in and arrest them all, beat them all, maybe even shoot them all. Because they're breaking the rules of capitalism.

Would they like to do that? If you gave them the option, would they do that? Oh, sure. In fact, *this* is the bit that's socialism. It's the society that produces the value that calls the shots, instead of the broker of past labor. But **that's not capitalism**. We never give them the opportunity, and if it emerges, we declare it in violation of the laws we have codified against it, and we stop it with force.

That is what it means that we live under capitalism.

And that's what's so wrong with capitalism.
