# Barfspace Roll of Loose Notes

I'm going to try using this instead of Google Keep for a while.

---

heading ids that aren't numbers would also make sense as tooltip values, as a markdown rendering option

---

a thing I think about a lot is Chris Morris describing his career trajectory going from The Day Today to Four Lions being that he used to be really engrossed in the way people said things, and then he became engrossed in what was being said. I'm paraphrasing somewhat, but the way the maturation was framed really shifted somethign for me. this should probably be torn off and put somewhere in the vicinity of that "growing Up" / "The Deltas" angst-musing or whatever

note that I think Understanding Comics might have crystallized this for me somewhat too with its "six steps"

---

"Fuck! Even in the future, nothing works!" - John Titor

---

how do I turn on "hitting the tab key indents the current line even at the end" in Ace? or Monaco?

---

octoprint feature: 3d printer alarm clock. At the given time, your bedside 3D printer plays a tune, then start preheating a print, which will then commence once preheating finishes. Want to sleep? You'll have to cancel this print. (or, you know, sleep through the print, but that'll be on you - the silent print moving around is enough to engage my ADHD ass and not want to sleep, I think)

---

Deleting anything should tell you the magnitude of what you're deleting. Like, if I'm deleting a GitHub repo, I want it to tell me "Just to be clear, you're deleting a repo/org with X users, Y branches with Z total commits, a tree with W files, V issues, U pull requests), etc

---

Idea: a "last-tested-at" meta tag for HTML that would lock the page in to an old browsing context, and browsers could pop up a "this page hasn't been updated in years" warning and not implement newer improvements

---

What'd be fun would be to have just a communal model that anybody is allowed to add to (filing plans for any space they want reserved, or maybe drawing them), and the basis is a dungeon or something else described at https://blog.prusaprinters.org/3d-print-your-own-tabletop-game-and-plenty-of-cool-accessories/

then imagine having this model be progressively scanned with something like a LIDAR system and you could dive into it full-scale at any time in VR!

or, wilder idea, the whole company is set up in a giant warehouse, but it's like a blanket fort - like cubicles, but office-wall-sized, with doors and (blanket) ceilings

anyway, this is just part of my mad plan to make IRL more like Minecraft

stashing the link to http://desktophero3d.com/ from the end of that Prusa article here

---

END OF ROLL, PLEASE RE-ORDER
