# Thoughts for the shotclock and git commit flow in these notes re: VS Code / IDE facilities

It'd be nice to have a "hibernate on making commit" option where it gives me, like, a minute to collect my thoughts, and will only cut a commit if I really space out and walk away

Also, I'm not using autosave on stushiba or stuzzy, I think, which will be kind of key to the shotclock stuff when that's back

This was probably in another note somewhere: validating should work in, like, an xargs-compatible fashion (maybe the first arg is the file to check, and all others? and/or it can take a list of filenames on stdin?) because this would let pre-commit validation be restricted to only the files in the commit

Hmm... I think you'd also have to check all files mentioned in removed links (even if the commit doesn't modify them), because the modified file

Oh, wait, yeah, you always have to check the entire tree, because it's about finding inbound links, and files don't list their backlinks (see next few paragraphs where I think about caching and remember that was a thing)

Is this something that could be optimized with cached data (which could maybe use some kind of interaction with the Git index, or even just last modification time, to see what needs to be regenerated)?

What about a first pass and a bloom filter or something like that?

## oh, right, metadata

Oh right, rebuilding a JSON blob of all references and reverse references is already on my radar for [Horus, the Tree Navigation UI for Bagtent](gxwgq-215gn-40947-n0vv1-r8tr4), or breadcrumb navigation

but I'm not sure that catches all the cases that a modifcation could make

## on having multiple branches

Ooh, "not all files are rigged" might be a nice flow adjustment: if that's the case, it waits 5 minutes or whatever before cutting the commit, and it's only pushed to some kind of staging branch?

maybe there just ought to be two local branches, one for local WIP (shotclock) and one for published WIP (five-minute clock) - and maybe there's a maintenance task/script (ie. in the shotclock background-console "daemon" apparatus) that makes a "bubble" for unrigged notes and files them away in a page listing "To-be-sorted notes"

## this is a cool idea and deserves its own page

Anyway, the thing I wanted to note here initially is that "these files haven't been committed/saved yet" is a kind of nice signal in VS Code. It'd be cool if there were a way I could set up UI icons for, instead of "saved" and

this is kind of like the stuff I wanted to do for versioning in penciltape

## other personal pet sounds and natter

Also, maybe I should install gpaste on stushiba? It's on stuzzy

## this has nothing to do with Git, but

A dropdown that suggests the first-h1 of all open buffers (in a floating menu navigable with hjkl/arrows that starts out at whatever tab you have open's row on the left-to-right/top-to-bottom list) as link text (and, you know, the filename) would be a convenient thing to

## more wild thoughts about tabs

also, being able to save those left-to-right tab lists as views, kind of like Tabalanche stashes? Views that could be developed out into their own pages? (Oh man... using this as a form of early-stage "sketching", using editor tabs? wild)

This starts to intersect with the general Windowsystem Metabrowser - an editor/browser that can reduce its tabs to the filenames/URLs of the file it's saving them to, and presents "all inks in this list" as a (maybe contextual) UI facility for a (page of)

Maybe we get way into the idea of this being like WaysIDE's vision: it has a "buffers" key/value store working like bagtent's "content" directory that isn't *necessarily* a filesystem, but it has subsystems to sync "its buffers" (from LevelDB or whatever holds them) to a live filesystem (or maybe even just presenting them through some kind of fuse-like construct), and then that's layered with Git-like versioning and/or something that can be "translated" to Git, but has a native structure more like Dat

maybe the "buffer" is just an "unsaved file" construct until it's actually saved to a file (which is how it gets introduced to Git). And before that, it's just tracked as an object tracking deltas for synced undo history (and they're also probably deltas for live collab, too).

Hmm... because now I'm thinking, buffers should be unlinkable constructs... so, like, Tabalanching them requires them to be "committed" to the file tree, ie. "saved to file"? I guess that works for me. And until then they're just JSON objects represented as documents in PouchDB or whatever

[ulids](https://github.com/ulid/spec) would make sense as the structure for the delta document IDs

Something like these delta documents could also be used for manipulating "pointers" (like Git's refs) to buffer states in the undo/redo "tree"

you could also have garbage collection (posting document deletion announcements I guess? then purging those a few days or whatever after replication settles so you know it's not going to boomerang back, and if it does it'll just get re-GCed so it's nbd) for the undo buffer

and so "saves"... there are "keyframes", which can be automatic or manual, but they're commits of document state, and they... have a different "decay" rules/strategies at different timescales / changescales

hmm... so the system's always keeping version control of all the files it's ever had open, because it's tracking editor state as well as window state? and "save to file" is just a "delta action" from a keyframe containing the content of the file that was saved? (or that only applies for manual "saves", content is auto-persisted to file when typing pauses... and that's also when keyframes are made?)

hmm, so the central server does handle that "here's what I just saved to the file"

ohh, is this why C9 had the "the file has been modified" issues so much? because the timestamps didn't match the timestamps of its last-modification of its last "persist to file" event?

oh hey yeah, this is also making me realize that "different editors collaborating simultaneously on a file tree" has characteristics akin to "here's a view of an entirely different part of the project" and project branches, right down to how much you wnat to stay in sync with other nodes/participants' view state - so an actual filesystem tree on a device needs to correspond 1:1 to an editor state master daemon that's qualified to publish "committed to file" events.
