# printer problems

I've been experiencing some weirdness:

- Unload issues are super common, like, filament fails to unload more often than not.
- Noise / friction around the selector
- Lots of PLA filament breakage in/around the buffer, but that might just be staleness. (Dydrating helps, sometimes.)

The Pocket 8266 tube for [the latest NeckFX stuff](97shf-f61wy-8da64-mky26-2pp7v) came off, so I thought my Live Z might be too low? I raised it to 0.975, but now I think my prints might not be having as consistent of a surface, so I'll probably revert back to -1.00 soon.

## diagnosis

Might be from the bondtech gear IR not being the right amount of sensitive?

after doing a whole extruder disasembly, I fiddled with the sensor position, we'll see if that fixes whatever early triger it's been hitting or whatever

this seems to have started around my using the alpha slicer, could they possibly be related?

## resolution??

I took the extruder apart again after looking at the manual for what could cause issues like what I was seeing, and a mangled PTFE tube was explicitly identified (and my PTFE tube was indeed mangled). I still had a couple spares from my MMU2S kit, so I used one of those and replaced the PTFE tube (note: had to twist the old tube around in the collet as it was pushed down to get it out).

Thinking about spares a little more, I realized this gave me a great opportunity to replace some of my janky printed parts with Prusa-issued ones: my R4 extruder cover had warped and cracked on the edge piece that has been reinforced in the R5 (this may have been a side effect of when I tried to print something after one of my first go-rounds trying to fix the extruder while printing the dockitall piece - I reassembled it without remembering to reseat the hotend assembly, leading it to preheat with the heatsink just resting loose, the print luckily detecting the issue as a crash when the Z axis got shoved by the heatsink before the "nozzle" could reach the bed), my fan shroud had been cracked by trying to screw it in while it wasn't snapped into place (a mistake I almost repeated with the new one), and the fan support I figured I might as well replace anyway (I printed the old pieces on my ugly flat bed).

After that (and doing a check for the filament sensor and rerunning calibration, bringing it back down to -1.0), I was still getting load issues (often accompanied with stuff like clicking around the idler? idk it was a blunt filament head) - I've tightened the MMU idler to at least 1 MM (ie. a chunk of filament laid across the head goes at least halfway beneath the surface).

## other fixes?

I'm inclined to print [this new selector](https://www.prusaprinters.org/prints/9882-prusa-mmu2-selector-improvements/files)

I also like [this one](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:3268500) which has OpenSCAD sources

## Update from later

Was still getting load failures in the beginning "bounce": fixed this by tightening the MMU2 idler again, I think.
